Note 7: Income Taxes
On December 22, 2017, the “Tax Cuts & Jobs Act” was signed into law and was effective for the Company starting in the quarter ended December 24, 2017. U.S. tax reform reduced the U.S. federal statutory tax rate from 35% to 21%, assessed a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred, and created new taxes on certain foreign sourced earnings. The impact on income taxes due to a change in legislation is required under the authoritative guidance of Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 740, Income Taxes, to be recognized in the period in which the law is enacted. In conjunction, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) 118, which allowed for the recording of provisional amounts related to U.S. tax reform and subsequent adjustments related to U.S. tax reform during an up to one-year measurement period that is similar to the measurement period used when accounting for business combinations. The Company recorded what it believed to be reasonable estimates during the SAB 118 measurement period. During the December 2018 quarter, the Company finalized the accounting of the income tax effects of U.S. tax reform. Although the SAB 118 measurement period has ended, there may be some aspects of U.S. tax reform that remain subject to future regulations and/or notices which may further clarify certain provisions of U.S. tax reform. The Company may need to adjust its previously recorded amounts to reflect the recognition and measurement of its tax accounting positions in accordance with ASC 740; such adjustments could be material.
The computation of the one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings was recorded on a provisional basis in the amount of $883.0 million in the fiscal year ended June 24, 2018, as permitted under SAB 118. The Company recorded a subsequent provisional adjustment of $36.6 million, as a result of incorporating new information into the estimate, in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in the three months ended September 23, 2018. The Company finalized the computation of the transition tax liability during the December 2018 quarter. The final adjustment resulted in a tax benefit of $51.2 million, which was recorded in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in the three months ended December 23, 2018. The final balance of total transition tax is $868.4 million. The one-time transition tax is based on the Company’s total post-1986 earnings and profits (“E&P”) that was previously deferred from U.S. income taxes. The Company had previously accrued deferred taxes on a portion of this E&P. The Company has completed the calculation of total post-1986 E&P and related income tax pools for its foreign subsidiaries. The Company elected to pay the one-time transition tax over a period of eight years.
Beginning in fiscal year 2019, the Company is subject to the impact of the GILTI provision of U.S. tax reform. The GILTI provision imposes taxes on foreign earnings in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets. The Company has calculated the impact of the GILTI provision on current year earnings and has included the impact in the effective tax rate. The Company made an accounting policy election in the September 2018 quarter to record deferred taxes in relation to the GILTI provision, and recorded a provisional tax benefit of $48.0 million in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in the three months ended September 23, 2018, under SAB 118. The Company finalized the computation of the accounting policy election during the December 2018 quarter. The final adjustment resulted in a tax expense of $0.4 million, which was recorded in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in the three months ended December 23, 2018. The final tax benefit of the election is $47.6 million.
The components of income (loss) before income taxes were as follows: