GreenSky, Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)
(United States Dollars in thousands, except per share data, unless otherwise stated)
Note 4. Loan Receivables Held for Sale
The following table summarizes the activity in the balance of loan receivables held for sale, net at lower of cost or fair value during the periods indicated.
(1) Includes accrued interest and fees, recoveries of previously charged-off loan receivables held for sale, as well as proceeds from transferring our rights to Charged-Off Receivables attributable to loan receivables held for sale. We retain servicing arrangements on sold loan receivables with the same terms and conditions as loans that are originated by our Bank Partners. Income from loan receivables held for sale activities is recorded within interest income and other gains (losses), net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. We sold loan receivables held for sale to certain Bank Partners on the following dates during the years ended December 31:
(2) We temporarily hold certain loan receivables, which are originated by a Bank Partner, while non-originating Bank Partner eligibility is being determined. Once we determine that a loan receivable meets the investment requirements of an eligible Bank Partner, we transfer the loan receivable to the Bank Partner at cost plus any accrued interest. The reported amount also includes loan receivables that have been placed on non-accrual and non-payment status while we investigate consumer inquiries.
(3) We received recovery payments of $50, $57 and $238 during the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Recoveries of principal and finance charges and fees on previously written off loan receivables held for sale are recognized on a collected basis as other gains and interest income, respectively, in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Separately, during the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, write offs and other were reduced by $312, $431, and $406, respectively, related to cash proceeds received from transferring our rights to Charged-Off Receivables attributable to loan receivables held for sale. The cash proceeds received were recorded within other gains (losses), net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.