Note 6. Property and Equipment, Net
Furniture and fixtures, computer software and equipment, leasehold improvements and real property are recorded at cost and presented net of depreciation. We record land at historical cost. During the application development phase, we record capitalized development costs in our construction in progress account and then reclass the asset to internal-use software when the project is ready for its intended use, which is usually when the code goes into production. Furniture, fixtures and office equipment and computer software and hardware are depreciated on a straight-line basis over lives ranging from three to five years. Internal-use software is amortized on a straight-line basis over a three-year period. Leasehold improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease terms or the asset lives. Real property is amortized on a straightline basis over lives ranging from 15 to 39 years.
The components of property and equipment, net are as follows (in thousands):
Depreciation expense related to property and equipment for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 was $5.9 million, $5.7 million and $5.4 million, respectively. Amortization expense related to internal-use software of $1.9 million, $0.8 million and $0.4 million was included in those expenses for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We had no disposals and write-offs of property and equipment that impacted the consolidated statements of operations during the year ended December 31, 2019. Within the Alarm.com segment, we disposed of and wrote off $1.4 million and $0.8 million of capitalized costs to research and development expenses within the consolidated statements of operations primarily related to the design of internal-use software that no longer met the requirements for capitalization during the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. In December 2019, we purchased land and a commercial building located in Liberty Lake, Washington for $5.1 million. Once renovations are complete, this building will be used by OpenEye for sales and training, research and development, warehousing and administrative purposes.