Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk
As part of managing the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we utilize cross-currency swap contracts and foreign currency forward contracts, a portion of which are designated as cash flow hedges. The objective of these contracts is to minimize impacts to cash flows and profitability due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates on intercompany and other cash transactions. We expect that significantly all of the balance in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) associated with the cash flow hedge-designated instruments addressing foreign exchange risks will be reclassified into the Consolidated Statement of Operations within the next twelve months.
During fiscal 2015, we entered into cross-currency swap contracts with an aggregate notional value of €1,000 million to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with certain intercompany loans. Under the terms of these contracts, which have been designated as cash flow hedges, we make interest payments in euros at 3.50% per annum and receive interest in U.S. dollars at a weighted-average rate of 5.33% per annum. Upon the maturity of these contracts in fiscal 2022, we will pay the notional value of the contracts in euros and receive U.S. dollars from our counterparties. In connection with the cross-currency swap contracts, both counterparties to each contract are required to provide cash collateral.
At fiscal year end 2019, these cross-currency swap contracts were in an asset position of $19 million and were recorded in other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The cross-currency swap contracts were in a liability position of $100 million and were recorded in other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fiscal year end 2018. At fiscal year end 2019 and 2018, collateral received from or paid to our counterparties approximated the derivative positions and was recorded in accrued and other current liabilities (when the contracts are in an asset position) or prepaid expenses and other current assets (when the contracts are in a liability position) on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The impacts of these cross-currency swap contracts were as follows:
(1) Gains and losses excluded from the hedging relationship are recognized prospectively in selling, general, and administrative expenses and are offset by losses and gains generated as a result of re-measuring certain intercompany loans to the U.S. dollar.