Global Services
Adjusteda revenue £4,735m
£4,735m
Adjusteda operating profit
£135m
Global Services operates in a global market that continues to experience high levels of change driven by both rapid technology innovation and a dynamic competitive landscape. Customers’ demands continue to evolve towards more flexible, on-demand models and new cloud-based and software-defined networking solutions. We continue to execute our Digital Global Services transformation programme to focus our business, standardise our operations, transform our underlying infrastructure, and provide innovative solutions to address the changing demands of our customers. We are focused on around 800 multinational companies and financial institutions served by three global industry verticals.
Adjusteda revenue for the year was down 6%, in line with our strategy to de-emphasise low margin business and including the impact of divestments. This includes a £35m negative impact from foreign exchange movements, primarily reflecting lower IP Exchange volumes and equipment sales.
Adjusteda operating costs for the year were down 8% mainly reflecting the decline in IP Exchange volumes and equipment sales and lower labour costs from our ongoing restructuring programme. Adjusteda EBITDA for the year was up £71m reflecting the reduction in operating costs and certain one-offs, more than offsetting the impact of lower revenue.
Depreciation and amortisation was down 13% for the year due to closure of certain projects in the prior year.
Capital expenditure was down 12% for the year reflecting ongoing rationalisation and our strategy to become a more asset light business. Normalised free cash flowb for the year improved by 151% to £296m, reflecting higher EBITDA, lower capital expenditure and improved working capital.
Total order intake was £3.3bn, down 15% year on year continuing to reflect a shift in customer behaviour, including shorter contract lengths and greater prevalence of usage-based terms.
a Adjusted measures exclude specific items, as explained in the Additional Information on page 185. b Free cash flow after net interest paid, before pension deficit payments (including the cash tax benefit of pension deficit payments) and specific items. c Openreach comparatives have been re-presented to reflect the transfer of Northern Ireland Networks from Enterprise to Openreach.