Note 2 – Business Combinations
In November 2018, we acquired SmartRG, Inc., a provider of carrier-class, open-source connected home platforms and cloud services for broadband service providers for cash consideration. This transaction was accounted for as a business combination. We have included the financial results of this acquisition in our consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition. These revenues are included in the Subscriber Solutions & Experience category within the Network Solutions and Services & Support reportable segments.
Contingent liabilities with a fair value totaling $1.2 million were recognized at the acquisition date, the payments of which were dependent upon SmartRG achieving future revenue, EBIT or customer purchase order milestones during the first half of 2019. The required milestones were not achieved and therefore, we recognized a gain of $1.2 million upon the reversal of these liabilities during the second quarter of 2019.
An escrow in the amount of $2.8 million was set up at the acquisition date to fund post-closing working capital settlements and to satisfy indemnity obligations to the Company arising from any inaccuracy or breach of representations, warranties, covenants, agreements or obligations of the sellers. The escrow is subject to arbitration. In December 2019, $1.3 million of the $2.8 million was released from the escrow account pursuant to the agreement, with the final settlement of the remaining balance expected during the fourth quarter of 2020. The remaining minimum and maximum potential release of funds to the seller ranges from no payment to $1.5 million.
We recorded goodwill of $3.5 million as a result of this acquisition, which represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired and liabilities assumed. We assessed the recognition and measurement of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on historical and forecasted data for future periods and concluded that our valuation procedures and resulting measures were appropriate.
On March 19, 2018, we acquired Sumitomo Electric Lightwave Corp.’s (SEL) North American EPON business and entered into a technology license and OEM supply agreement with Sumitomo Electric Industries, Ltd. (SEI). This acquisition establishes ADTRAN as the North American market leader for EPON solutions for the cable MSO industry and it will accelerate the MSO market’s adoption of our open, programmable and scalable architectures. This transaction was accounted for as a business combination. We have included the financial results of this acquisition in our consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition. These revenues are included in the Access & Aggregation and Subscriber Solutions & Experience categories within the Network Solutions reportable segment.
We recorded a bargain purchase gain of $11.3 million during the first quarter of 2018, net of income taxes, which is subject to customary working capital adjustments between the parties. The bargain purchase gain of $11.3 million represents the difference between the fair-value of the net assets acquired over the cash paid. SEI, an OEM supplier based in Japan, is the global market leader in EPON. SEI’s Broadband Networks Division, through its SEL subsidiary, operated a North American EPON business that included sales, marketing, support, and region-specific engineering development. The North American EPON market is primarily driven by the Tier 1 cable MSO operators and has developed more slowly than anticipated. Through the transaction, SEI divested its North American EPON assets and established a relationship with ADTRAN. The transfer of these assets to ADTRAN, which included key customer relationships and a required assumption by ADTRAN of relatively low incremental expenses, along with the value of the technology license and OEM supply agreement, resulted in the bargain purchase gain. We have assessed the recognition and measurement of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on historical and forecasted data for future periods and we have concluded that our valuation procedures and resulting measures were appropriate. The gain is included in the line item ”Gain on bargain purchase of a business” in the 2018 Consolidated Statements of Income.
The final allocation of the purchase price to the estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date for SmartRG and the final allocation of the purchase price to the estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date for Sumitomo are as follows:
(In thousands)