Income Taxes
nm - not meaningful
For fiscal 2018, the effective tax rate was different than the statutory rate due primarily to the impact of the Tax Act reform. The Company recorded a benefit of approximately $3.3 million resulting from the effect of a reduction in the deferred rate and the ability to offset indefinite lived deferred tax liabilities with certain deferred tax assets, recognition of net operating losses as deferred tax assets, which were offset by increases in the valuation allowance, certain foreign and state tax effects including a benefit of $0.4 million related to a settlement with the California Franchise Tax Board and other U.S. permanent book to tax differences. At March 31, 2018, we had $198.7 million of a federal net operating loss carryforward that expires, if unused, in fiscal years 2031 to 2038.
For fiscal 2017, the effective tax rate was different than the statutory rate due primarily to the recognition of net operating losses as deferred tax assets, which were offset by increases in the valuation allowance, state taxes and other U.S. permanent book to tax differences.
Although the timing and outcome of tax settlements are uncertain, it is reasonably possible that during the next 12 months a reduction in unrecognized tax benefits may occur in the range of zero to $0.1 million of tax and zero to $0.2 million of interest based on the outcome of tax examinations and as a result of the expiration of various statutes of limitations. We are routinely audited; due to the ongoing nature of current examinations in multiple jurisdictions, other changes could occur in the amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits during the next 12 months which cannot be estimated at this time.
Because of our losses in prior periods, we have recorded a valuation allowance offsetting substantially all of our deferred tax assets. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets generated prior to Tax Act reform depends on the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences are deductible. Because of our losses in prior periods, management believes that it is more-likely-than-not that we will not realize the benefits of these deductible differences.