Operating Revenues and Selected Operating Statistics
(1) Service and other revenues included in our Business segment amounted to approximately $27.9 billion and $28.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Wireless equipment revenues included in our Business segment amounted to approximately $3.5 billion and $3.4 billion for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. (2) As of end of period (3) Includes certain adjustments
Business revenues decreased $91 million, or 0.3%, during 2019 compared to 2018, primarily due to decreases in Global Enterprise and Wholesale revenues, partially offset by increases in Small and Medium Business and Public Sector and Other revenues.
Global Enterprise Global Enterprise offers services to large businesses, which are identified based on their size and volume of business with Verizon, as well as non-U.S. public sector customers. Global Enterprise revenues decreased $383 million, or 3.4%, during 2019 compared to 2018, primarily due to declines in traditional data and voice communication services as a result of competitive price pressures. These revenue decreases were partially offset by increases in wireless service revenue.
Small and Medium Business Small and Medium Business offers wireless services and equipment, tailored voice and networking products, Fios services, IP networking, advanced voice solutions, security and managed information technology services to our U.S.-based customers that do not meet the requirements to be categorized as Global Enterprise.
Small and Medium Business revenues increased $712 million, or 6.6%, during 2019 compared to 2018, primarily due to an increase in wireless postpaid service revenue of 11.7% as a result of increases in the amount of wireless retail postpaid connections.
These increases were further driven by increased wireless equipment revenue resulting from a shift to higher priced units in the mix of wireless devices sold and increases in the number of wireless devices sold, increased revenue related to our wireless device protection package, as well as increased revenue related to Fios services. These revenue increases were partially offset by revenue declines related to the loss of voice and DSL service connections.
Small and Medium Business Fios revenues totaled $915 million and increased $110 million, or 13.7%, during 2019 compared to 2018, reflecting the increase in total connections, as well as increased demand for higher broadband speeds.
Public Sector and Other Public Sector and Other offers wireless products and services as well as wireline connectivity and managed solutions to U.S. federal, state and local governments and educational institutions. These services include the business services and connectivity similar to the products and services offered by Global Enterprise, in each case, with features and pricing designed to address the needs of governments and educational institutions.
Public Sector and Other revenues increased $89 million, or 1.5%, during 2019 compared to 2018, driven by increases in networking and wireless postpaid service revenue as a result of an increase in wireless retail postpaid connections.
Wholesale Wholesale offers wireline communications services including data, voice, local dial tone and broadband services primarily to local, long distance, and wireless carriers that use our facilities to provide services to their customers. Wholesale revenues decreased $509 million, or 13.6%, during 2019 compared to 2018, primarily due to declines in core data and traditional voice services resulting from the effect of technology substitution and continuing contraction of market rates due to competition.