Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
Information About Our Board of Directors
Set forth below are the name, age and position of each member of our board of directors.
The following are biographical summaries of our board members.
Darcy Antonellis has served on the Board since December 2018. Since January 2014, Ms. Antonellis has been the Chief Executive Officer of Vubiquity, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Amdocs Limited since February 22, 2018, the largest global provider of premium content services and technical solutions serving clients in 120 countries and in 80 languages. From June 1998 until December 2013, Ms. Antonellis held numerous positions at Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc., a Time Warner company, including President, Technical Operations and Chief Technology Officer. Ms. Antonellis has also served as a member of the Board of Directors of Cinemark Holdings, Inc. since July 7, 2015. Ms, Antonellis received a B.S. in electrical engineering from Temple University and an M.B.A. from Fordham University. The Board believes Ms. Antonellis brings her extensive expertise in executive management, operations and engineering and her in-depth understanding of content services, media and entertainment industry to her role as a member of the Board.
David C. Habiger has served on the Board since December 2016. Mr. Habiger currently serves as the Chief Executive Officer of JD Power, a privately held company. Mr. Habiger served as a director of DTS from March 2014 until its acquisition by the Company in December 2016. Mr. Habiger serves as a director of the Chicago Federal Reserve Board. He is on the SABOR (Systems Activities, Bank Operations and Risk) Committee and the Governance & HR Committee for the
Federal Reserve. Mr. Habiger served as the CEO at Textura Corporation, a soft
David C. Habiger has served on the Board since December 2016. Mr. Habiger currently serves as the Chief Executive Officer of JD Power, a privately held company. Mr. Habiger served as a director of DTS from March 2014 until its acquisition by the Company in December 2016. Mr. Habiger serves as a director of the Chicago Federal Reserve Board. He is on the SABOR (Systems Activities, Bank Operations and Risk) Committee and the Governance & HR Committee for the Federal Reserve. Mr. Habiger served as the CEO at Textura Corporation, a soft David C. Habiger has served on the Board since December 2016. Mr. Habiger currently serves as the Chief Executive Officer of JD Power, a privately held company. Mr. Habiger served as a director of DTS from March 2014 until its acquisition by the Company in December 2016. Mr. Habiger serves as a director of the Chicago Federal Reserve Board. He is on the SABOR (Systems Activities, Bank Operations and Risk) Committee and the Governance & HR Committee for the Federal Reserve. Mr. Habiger served as the CEO at Textura Corporation, a software company focused on construction management, from May 2015 until its sale to Oracle in June 2016. From May 2011 to August 2012, he served as the Chief Executive Officer of NDS Group Ltd., a provider of video software and content security solutions. Mr. Habiger worked with the founding members of Sonic Solutions (“Sonic”), a computer software company, from 1992 to 2011 and served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Sonic from 2005 to 2011. He serves as a director for Echo Global Logistics, Inc., GrubHub Inc., and Stamps.com Inc., and previously served as a director for Control4 Corporation, Enova International, Inc., Immersion Corporation, RealD Inc., Textura Corporation, DTS, and Sonic Solutions. He is a member of the National Association of Corporate Directors and is on the Advisory Board of the University of Chicago Center for Entrepreneurship. Mr. Habiger received a bachelor’s degree in business administration from St. Norbert College and an M.B.A. from the University of Chicago. The Board believes that Mr. Habiger brings extensive experience in the digital media and entertainment industries and his in-depth knowledge and understanding of the consumer electronics industry to his role as a member of the Board.
Richard S. Hill has served as a member of the Board since August 2012 and as Chairman of the Board since March 2013. Mr. Hill also served as the Company’s Interim Chief Executive Officer from April 15, 2013 until May 29, 2013. Mr. Hill previously served as the Chief Executive Officer and member of the board of directors of Novellus Systems Inc., until its acquisition by Lam Research Corporation in June 2012. During his nearly 20 years leading Novellus Systems, a designer, manufacturer, and marketer of semiconductor equipment used in fabricating integrated circuits, Mr. Hill grew annual revenues from approximately $100 million to over $1 billion. Presently, Mr. Hill is Chairman of Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (“Marvell”), a producer of storage, communications and consumer semiconductor products, and a member of its board of directors. Mr. Hill served as Interim Chief Executive Officer of Marvell from May 2016 until July 2016. Mr. Hill is a member of the boards of directors of Arrow Electronics, Inc., a global provider of products and services to industrial and commercial users of electronic components and enterprise computing, and Cabot Microelectronics Corporation, the leading global supplier of chemical mechanical planarization (CMP) slurries and a growing CMP pad supplier to the semiconductor industry. Mr. Hill previously served on the board of directors of Symantec Corporation, LSI Corporation, Planar Systems, Autodesk, Inc. and Yahoo Inc. Mr. Hill received a B.S. in Bioengineering from the University of Illinois in Chicago and an M.B.A. from Syracuse University. The Board believes that Mr. Hill brings extensive expertise in executive management and engineering for technology and defenserelated companies to his role as Chairman of the Board.
Jon E. Kirchner has served on the Board and as Chief Executive Officer since June 2017. Previously he was president of Xperi following the completion of the acquisition of DTS in December 2016. He served as DTS’s Chairman of the board of directors and Chief Executive Officer from 2010 to December 2016 and had been a member of DTS’s board of directors from 2002 to December 2016. From 2001 to 2010, he served as DTS’s Chief Executive Officer. Prior to his tenure as Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Kirchner served at DTS from 1993 to 2001 in a number of senior leadership roles including President, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining DTS, Mr. Kirchner worked for the consulting and audit groups at Price Waterhouse LLP (now PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP), an international accounting firm. In 2012, Mr. Kirchner received the Ernst & Young Technology Entrepreneur of the Year Award for Greater Los Angeles. In 2011, Mr. Kirchner was honored by the Producers Guild of America, receiving the “Digital 25: Leaders in Emerging Entertainment” award for being among the visionaries that have made significant contributions to the advancement of digital entertainment and storytelling. Mr. Kirchner currently serves on the board of directors of Free Stream Media Corporation (Samba TV), a leader in developing cross platform TV experiences for consumers and advertisers. Mr. Kirchner is a Certified Public Accountant and received a B.A. in Economics, cum laude, from Claremont McKenna College. The Board believes that Mr. Kirchner brings his experience in the senior management of public companies, including service as chairman, president, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, his extensive experience in the digital media and entertainment industries, as well as his knowledge of the Company as its Chief Executive Officer, to his role as a member of the Board.
V. Sue Molina has served on the Board since February 2018. Most recently she served on the Board of Directors of DTS from January 2008 until December 2016, and served as Chair of the Audit Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. From November 1997 until her retirement in May 2004, Ms. Molina was a tax partner at Deloitte & Touche LLP, an international accounting firm, serving from 2000 until May 2004 as the national partner in charge of Deloitte’s Initiative for the Retention and Advancement of Women. Prior to that, she spent twenty years with Ernst & Young LLP, an international accounting firm, the last ten years as a partner. Ms. Molina has prior board experience serving on the Board of Directors, chair of the Compensation Committee and member of the Audit Committee of Sucampo Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and on the Board of Directors, chair of the Audit Committee and a member of the Compensation Committee of Royal Neighbors of America. She received a B.S.B.A. and a Masters of Accounting degree from the University of Arizona. The Board believes that Ms. Molina brings her extensive accounting and financial expertise, her experience in advising boards and her past service on boards of public companies, to her role as a member of the Board.
George A. Riedel has served on the Board since May 2013. He also has served on the board of Cerner Corporation, a leading supplier of health care information technology solutions and tech-enabled services, since May 2019. Since January 2018, Mr. Riedel has been a Senior Lecturer at Harvard Business School. Prior to that, he was the Chairman of the Board of Montreal-based Accedian Networks, where he had served as a director since 2010. Until January 2017, Mr. Riedel also served as Chairman and CEO of Cloudmark, Inc., a private network security company. Mr. Riedel joined the board at Cloudmark in June 2013, became Chairman in January 2014 and CEO in December 2014. Mr. Riedel also served on the board of directors of PeerApp from 2011 until 2014 and on the board of directors of Blade Network Technologies from 2009 until its sale to IBM in 2010. In March 2006, Mr. Riedel joined Nortel Networks Corporation, a publicly-traded, multinational, telecommunications equipment manufacturer (“Nortel”), as part of the turnaround team as the Chief Strategy Officer. His role changed after Nortel initiated creditor protection under the respective restructuring regimes of Canada under the Companies’ Creditors Arrangement Act, in the U.S. under the Bankruptcy Code, the United Kingdom under the Insolvency Act 1986, on January 14, 2009, and subsequently, Israel, to lead the sale/restructuring of various carrier and enterprise business units through a series of transactions to leading industry players such as Ericsson, Avaya and Ciena. Mr. Riedel led the efforts to create stand-alone business units, carve out the relevant P&L and balance sheet elements and assign patents to enable sales of the assets. In 2010, Mr. Riedel’s role changed to President of Business Units and CSO as he took leadership of the effort to monetize the remaining 6,500 patents and applications patents as well as manage the P&L for several business units that were held for sale. The 2011 patent sale led to an unprecedented transaction of $4.5 billion to a consortium of Apple, Ericsson, RIM, Microsoft and EMC. Prior to Nortel, Mr. Riedel was the Vice President of Strategy and Corporate Development of Juniper Networks, Inc., a publicly-traded designer, developer and manufacturer of networking products, from 2003 until 2006. Previously, Mr. Riedel was also a Director at McKinsey & Company, a global management consulting firm, where he spent 15 years serving clients in the telecom and technology sectors in Asia and North America on a range of strategy and growth issues. Mr. Riedel received a B.S. with Distinction in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Virginia and his M.B.A. from Harvard Business School. Mr. Riedel holds a Stanford Directors’ College certification based on completion of its corporate directors training. The Board believes that Mr. Riedel brings his experience from his direct involvement in the restructuring of Nortel, including the sale of Nortel’s patent portfolio for $4.5 billion, as well as his knowledge of the technology industry and leadership experience, to his role as a member of the Board.
Christopher A. Seams has served on the Board since March 2013. Mr. Seams served as the Chief Executive Officer and a director of Deca Technologies Inc., a subsidiary of Cypress Semiconductor Corporation, a global semiconductor company, from May 2013 until August 2016. Mr. Seams previously was an Executive Vice President of Sales & Marketing at Cypress Semiconductor Corporation, from July 2005 until June 2013. He previously served as an Executive Vice President of Worldwide Manufacturing & Research and Development of Cypress Semiconductor Corporation. Mr. Seams joined Cypress in 1990 and held a variety of positions in process and assembly technology research and development and manufacturing operations. Prior to joining Cypress in 1990, he worked as a process development Engineer or Manager for Advanced Micro Devices and Philips Research Laboratories. Mr. Seams currently serves as the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Onto Innovation Inc. (formerly Nanometrics Inc.). Mr. Seams is a senior member of IEEE, a member of NACD and ACCD, served on the Engineering Advisory Council for Texas A&M University and was a board member of Joint Venture Silicon Valley. Mr. Seams received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Texas A&M University and a M.S. in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Texas at Austin. Mr. Seams has a Professional Certificate in Advanced Computer Security from Stanford University. Mr. Seams also holds a National Association of Corporate Directors certification which was awarded to him based on NACD training and examination standards. The Board believes that Mr. Seams brings extensive management, sales and marketing, and engineering experience in the semiconductor industry to his role as a member of the Board.