Product Revenue by Groups of Similar Products
In addition to the primary view on a geographic basis, we also prepare financial information related to groups of similar products and customer markets for various purposes. We report our product revenue in the following categories: Infrastructure Platforms, Applications, Security, and Other Products. This aligns our product categories with our evolving business model. Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period’s presentation.
The following table presents revenue for groups of similar products (in millions, except percentages):
Amounts may not sum and percentages may not recalculate due to rounding.
Infrastructure Platforms The Infrastructure Platforms product category represents our core networking offerings related to switching, routing, wireless, and the data center. Infrastructure Platforms revenue increased by 7%, or $1,869 million, with growth across the portfolio. Switching had solid growth, with strong revenue growth in campus switching driven by an increase in sales of our intent-based networking Catalyst 9000 Series, and with growth in data center switching driven by increased revenue from our ACI portfolio. Routing experienced modest revenue growth driven by an increase in sales of SD-WAN products, partially offset by weakness in the service provider market. We experienced double digit revenue growth from wireless products driven by increases across the portfolio. Revenue from data center increased driven by higher sales of HyperFlex and our server products.
Applications The Applications product category includes our collaboration offerings (unified communications, Cisco TelePresence and conferencing) as well as IoT and AppDynamics analytics software offerings. Revenue in our Applications product category increased by 15%, or $767 million, with double digit growth in unified communications, TelePresence, AppDynamics, and IoT software.
Security Revenue in our Security product category increased 16%, or $378 million, driven by higher sales of identity and access, advanced threat security, unified threat management and web security products. The Duo acquisition in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 also contributed to the revenue increase in this product category.
Other Products The decrease in revenue from our Other Products category was primarily driven by a decrease in revenue from SPVSS business which we divested on October 28, 2018.