Note 9 – Debt Obligations
Debt obligations as of December 27, 2019 and December 28, 2018 consisted of the following:
Senior Secured Term Loan Credit Facility
On June 22, 2016, the Company refinanced its debt structure by entering into a credit agreement (the “Term Loan Credit Agreement”) with a group of lenders for which Jefferies Finance LLC acts as administrative agent and collateral agent. The Term Loan Credit Agreement provides for a senior secured term loan B facility (the “Term Loan Facility”) in an aggregate amount of $305,000 (the loans outstanding under the Term Loan Facility, the “Term Loans”) maturing on June 22, 2022. Additionally, the Term Loan Facility includes an accordion which permits the Company to request that the lenders extend additional Term Loans in an aggregate principal amount of up to $50,000 (less the aggregate amount of certain indebtedness incurred to finance acquisitions) plus an unlimited amount subject to the Company’s Total Leverage Ratio not exceeding 4.90:1.00 on a pro forma basis. Borrowings were used to repay the Company’s senior secured notes, as well as the prior term loan and revolving credit facility. Remaining funds were used for capital expenditures, permitted acquisitions, working capital and general corporate purposes of the Company.
On December 13, 2017, the Company completed a repricing of the Term Loan Facility to reduce Applicable Rate (as defined in the Term Loan Credit Agreement) from 475 basis points to 400 basis points over the London Inter-bank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”). In connection with the repricing, the Company paid debt financing costs of $761 which were capitalized as deferred financing charges.
On July 6, 2018, the Company made a $47,100 prepayment and is no longer required to make quarterly amortization payments on the Term Loans. On November 16, 2018, the Company completed a repricing of the Term Loan Facility to reduce the Applicable Rate from 400 basis points to 350 basis points over LIBOR. In connection with the repricing, the Company paid debt financing costs of $626 which were capitalized as deferred financing charges. The Company wrote off unamortized deferred financing fees of $1,081 as a result of this repricing.
The interest charged on the Term Loans, will be equal to a spread plus, at the Company’s option, either the Base Rate (as defined in the Term Loan Credit Agreement) or LIBOR for one, two, three, six or (if consented to by the lenders) twelve-month interest periods chosen by the Company. The interest rate on the Term Loans at December 27, 2019 was 5.2%.
The Term Loan Facility contains customary affirmative covenants, negative covenants (including restrictions, subject to customary exceptions, on incurring debt or liens, paying dividends, repaying payment subordinated and junior lien debt, disposing assets, and making investments and acquisitions), and events of default for a term loan B facility of this type, as more particularly described in the Term Loan Credit Agreement. As of December 27, 2019, the Company was in compliance with all debt covenants under the Term Loan Credit Agreement.
Asset-Based Loan Facility
On June 29, 2018, the Company entered into a credit agreement (the “ABL Credit Agreement”) with a group of lenders for which BMO Harris Bank, N.A. acts as administrative agent. The ABL Credit Agreement provides for an asset-based loan facility (the “ABL”) in the aggregate amount of up to $150,000. Borrowings under the ABL will be used, and are expected to be used, for capital expenditures, permitted acquisitions, working capital and general corporate purposes of the Company. Availability under the ABL will be limited to a borrowing base equal to the lesser of: (i) the aggregate amount of commitments or (ii) the sum of specified percentages of eligible receivables and eligible inventory, minus certain availability reserves. The co-borrowers under the ABL are entitled on one or more occasions, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, to request an increase in the commitments under the ABL in an aggregate principal amount of up to $25,000. The ABL matures on the earlier of June 29, 2023 and 90 days prior to the maturity date of the Company’s Term Loan Facility.
The interest rate charged on borrowing under the ABL is equal to a spread plus, at the Company’s option, either the Base Rate (as defined in the ABL Credit Agreement) or LIBOR (except for swingline loans) for one, two, three, six or (if consented to by the lenders) twelve-month, interest periods chosen by the Company. The Company will pay certain recurring fees with respect to the ABL, including fees on unused lender commitments.
The ABL Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative covenants, negative covenants and events of default as more particularly described in the ABL Credit Agreement. The Company is required to comply with a minimum consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio of 1:1 if the amount of availability under the ABL falls below $10,000 or 10% of the borrowing base.
The Company incurred transaction costs of $877 which were capitalized as deferred financing fees to be amortized over the term of the ABL. On July 6, 2018, the Company borrowed $47,100 under the ABL and made an equivalent prepayment on its Term Loans. On November 22, 2019, the Company fully paid all borrowings outstanding under the ABL and there was no balance outstanding as of December 27, 2019. The weighted average interest rate on our ABL borrowings was approximately 3.7% during fiscal 2019.
As of December 27, 2019, the Company was in compliance with all debt covenants and the Company had reserved $16,641 of the ABL for the issuance of letters of credit. As of December 27, 2019, funds totaling $133,359 were available for borrowing under the ABL.
Convertible Senior Notes
On November 22, 2019, the Company issued $150,000 aggregate principal amount of 1.875% Convertible Senior Notes (the “Senior Notes”). The Senior Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture, dated as of November 22, 2019 (the “Indenture”), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee. Approximately $43,225 of the net proceeds were used to repay all outstanding borrowings under the ABL and the Company intends to use the remainder for working capital and general corporate purposes, which may include future acquisitions.
The Senior Notes bear interest of 1.875% per annum payable semiannually in arrears on June 1 and December 1 of each year, beginning on June 1, 2020. At any time before the close of business on the scheduled trading day immediately before the maturity date, the Senior Notes will be convertible at the option of holders into shares of the Company’s common stock, together with cash in lieu of any fractional share, at an initial conversion price of approximately $44.20 per share. The conversion price is subject to adjustments upon the occurrence of certain events. The Senior Notes will mature on December 1, 2024, unless earlier converted or repurchased in accordance with their terms.
The Company may not redeem the Senior Notes at its option prior to maturity. In addition, if the Company undergoes a fundamental change, as described in the Indenture, holders may require the Company to repurchase for cash all or part of their Senior Notes at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest up to, but excluding, the required repurchase date.
The Company incurred transaction costs of approximately $5,082 which were capitalized as deferred financing fees to be amortized over the term of the Senior Notes.
Convertible Unsecured Note
On February 25, 2019, the Company issued a $4,000 convertible unsecured note (the “Unsecured Note”), maturing on June 29, 2023, to Bassian Farms, Inc. (the “Holder”) as partial consideration in the Bassian acquisition. The interest rate charged on the Unsecured Note is 4.5% per annum and increases to 5.0% after the two-year anniversary of the closing date. The Company may, in certain instances beginning eighteen months after issuance of the Unsecured Note, redeem the Unsecured Note in whole or in part for cash or convert the Unsecured Note into shares of the Company’s common stock at the conversion price of $43.93 per share. After the two-year anniversary of the closing date, the Holder may convert the Unsecured Note into shares of the Company’s common stock at the conversion price. Upon a change of control event, the Holder may convert the Unsecured Note into shares of the Company’s common stock at the conversion price or redeem the Unsecured Note for cash.