9. Debt
Silicon Valley Bank Facility
We maintained a Loan and Security Agreement with SVB (the "Credit Facility") under which we had a term loan with an original borrowing amount of $6.0 million (the “Original Term Loan”). The Original Term Loan carried a floating annual interest rate equal to SVB’s prime rate then in effect plus 2%. The Original Term Loan matured and was repaid in May 2019.
On October 10, 2019, we entered into an Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement (the “Loan Agreement”) with SVB, which amended and restated in its entirety our previous Credit Facility. Under the Loan Agreement, SVB agreed to make advances available up to $10.0 million (the “Revolving Line”). If we borrow from the Revolving Line, such borrowing would carry a floating annual interest rate equal to the greater of (i) the Prime Rate (as defined in the Loan Agreement) then in effect plus 1% or (ii) 6%. Amounts borrowed under the Revolving Line may be repaid and, prior to the Revolving Line Maturity Date (defined below), reborrowed. The Revolving Line terminates on October 10, 2020 (the “Revolving Line Maturity Date”), unless earlier terminated by us. No amounts have been borrowed under this Loan Agreement.
Amounts due under the Loan Agreement are secured by our assets, including all personal property, inventory and bank accounts; however, intellectual property is not secured under the Loan Agreement. The inventory used to secure the amount due does not include demo or loaner equipment with an aggregate book value up to $1.0 million. The Loan Agreement requires us to observe a number of financial and operational covenants, including maintenance of a specified Liquidity Coverage Ratio (as defined in the Loan Agreement), protection and registration of intellectual property rights and customary negative covenants. If any event of default occurs SVB may declare due immediately all borrowings under the Credit Facility and foreclose on the collateral. Furthermore, an event of default under the Credit Facility would result in an increase in the interest rate on any amounts outstanding. As of December 31, 2019, there were no events of default on the Credit Facility.
Interest expense, net for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 consisted of the following: