The Company continually reviews the adequacy of our valuation allowance and recognizes the benefits of deferred tax assets only as the reassessment indicates that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized in accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes. Due to our recent decrease in revenue and profitability for 2019, and all other positive and negative objective evidence considered as part of our analysis, our ability to consider other subjective evidence such as projections for future growth is limited when evaluating whether our deferred tax assets will be realized. As such, the Company was no longer able to conclude that it was more likely than not that our domestic deferred tax assets would be realized and a valuation allowance against our domestic deferred tax assets was established in the third quarter of 2019. The amount of the deferred tax assets considered realizable may be adjusted in future periods in the event that sufficient evidence is present to support a conclusion that it is more likely than not that all or a portion of our domestic deferred tax assets will be realized.
As of December 31, 2019, the Company had gross deferred tax assets totaling $56.2 million offset by a valuation allowance totaling $48.6 million. Of the valuation allowance, $42.8 million was established in the current year primarily related to our domestic deferred tax assets. The remaining $5.8 million established in prior periods related to state research and development credit carryforwards and foreign net operating loss and research and development credit carryforwards where we lack sufficient activity to realize those deferred tax assets. The remaining $7.6 million in deferred tax assets that were not offset by a valuation allowance are located in various foreign jurisdictions where the Company believes it is more likely than not we will realize these deferred tax assets.
Supplemental balance sheet information related to deferred tax assets is as follows:
As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the deferred tax assets for foreign and domestic loss carry-forwards, research and development tax credits, unamortized research and development costs and state credit carryforwards totaled $41.3 million and $28.8 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2019, $19.1 million of these deferred tax assets will expire at various times between 2020 and 2039. The remaining deferred tax assets will either amortize through 2029 or carryforward indefinitely.
As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, our cash and cash equivalents were $73.8 million and $105.5 million and short-term investments were $33.2 million and $3.2 million, which provided available short-term liquidity of $107.0 million and $108.7 million. Of these amounts, our foreign subsidiaries held cash of $52.3 million and $87.1 million, respectively, representing approximately 48.9% and 80.1% of available short-term liquidity, which is used to fund on-going liquidity needs of these subsidiaries. We intend to permanently reinvest these funds outside the U.S. except to the extent any of these funds can be repatriated without withholding tax and our current business plans do not indicate a need to repatriate to fund domestic operations. However, if all of these funds were repatriated to the U.S. or used for U.S. operations, certain amounts could be subject to tax. Due to the timing and circumstances of repatriation of such earnings, if any, it is not practical to determine the amount of funds subject to unrecognized deferred tax liability.
During 2019, 2018 and 2017, no income tax benefit or expense was recorded for stock options exercised as an adjustment to equity.