3. REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS
Revenues and related costs on construction contracts are recognized as the performance obligations are satisfied over time in accordance with ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. Under ASC 606, revenue and associated profit, will be recognized as the customer obtains control of the goods and services promised in the contract (i.e., performance obligations). The cost of uninstalled materials or equipment will generally be excluded from the Company’s recognition of profit, unless specifically produced or manufactured for a project, because such costs are not considered to be a measure of progress.
In adopting ASC 606, the Company had the following significant changes in accounting principles:
(i) Timing of revenue recognition for uninstalled materials - The Company previously recognized the majority of its revenue from the installation or construction of commercial & public works projects using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, whereby revenue is recognized as the Company progresses on the contract. The percentage-of-completion for each project was determined on an actual cost-to-estimated final cost basis. Under ASC 606, revenue and associated profit, is recognized as the customer obtains control of the goods and services promised in the contract (i.e., performance obligations). The cost of uninstalled materials or equipment is generally excluded from the Company’s recognition of profit, unless specifically produced or manufactured for a project, because such costs are not considered to be a measure of progress.
(ii) Completed contracts - The Company previously recognized the majority of its revenue from the installation of residential projects using the completed contract method of accounting whereby revenue the Company recognized when the project is completed. Under, ASC 606, revenue is recognized as the customer obtains control of the goods and services promised in the contract (i.e., performance obligations).
Revenue recognition for other sales arrangements such as the sales of materials will remain materially consistent with prior treatment.
The adoption of the new revenue recognition standard resulted in a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings of approximately $1,405 as of January 1, 2018. The details of this adjustment are summarized below.