The table below presents estimated payments and benefits that would have been provided to Messrs. Lien, Walcott and Bertz, assuming their respective qualifying terminations as of December 31, 2019. As a condition of receiving any severance benefits in connection with the change in control agreements, each named executive officer must execute a full waiver and release of all claims in our favor. In addition to the benefits described in the tables below, upon termination of employment each executive officer may be eligible for other benefits that are generally available to all salaried employees, such as life insurance, long-term disability, and 401(k) benefits.
(1) Mr. Lien would receive 18 months of base salary and 150% of his annual target bonus. Mr. Walcott would receive 12 months of base salary and 100% of his annual target bonus. Mr. Bertz would receive six months of base salary, 50% of his annual target bonus and the pro rata portion of his unpaid annual target bonus for the period of completed service.
(2) Mr. Lien would receive 18 months of COBRA benefits reimbursement and Mr. Bertz would receive six months of COBRA benefits reimbursement. Mr. Walcott elected not to receive benefits from the Company that would be eligible for continuation under COBRA. As a result, Mr. Walcott would not be eligible for post-termination COBRA benefits reimbursement.
(3) As of December 31, 2019, Mr. Walcott held a stock option with 13,006 unvested shares subject to such option with an exercise price of $17.15 per share. The exercise price of each of these stock options is greater than $1.38, the closing price of our common stock on The Nasdaq Global Market as of December 31, 2019. As of December 31, 2019, Mr. Walcott had 78,750 unvested RSUs and Mr. Bertz had 40,000 unvested RSUs.
(4) Mr. Lien would receive nine months of base salary and 75% of his annual target bonus; Mr. Walcott would receive six months of base salary and 50% of his target bonus; Mr. Bertz would receive three months of base salary and 25% of his target bonus.
(5) Mr. Lien would receive nine months of COBRA benefits reimbursement and Mr. Bertz would receive three months of COBRA benefits reimbursement. Mr. Walcott elected not to receive benefits from the Company that would be eligible for continuation under COBRA. As a result, Mr. Walcott would not be eligible for post-termination COBRA benefits reimbursement.