15. Income Taxes
Nielsen provides for income taxes utilizing the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred income taxes are recorded to reflect the tax consequences in future years of differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their financial reporting amounts at each balance sheet date, based on enacted tax laws and statutory tax rates applicable to the periods in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income. If it is determined that it is more likely than not that future tax benefits associated with a deferred tax asset will not be realized, a valuation allowance is provided. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in the tax rates is recognized in the consolidated statements of operations as an adjustment to income tax expense in the period that includes the enactment date.
The Company records a liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulting from uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Such tax positions are, based solely on their technical merits, more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities and reflect the largest amount of benefit, determined on a cumulative probability basis that is more likely than not to be realized upon settlement with the applicable taxing authority with full knowledge of all relevant information. The Company recognizes interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense.
On December 22, 2017, the TCJA was signed into law and significantly changed the way the U.S. taxes corporations. The TCJA reduced the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent and created a territorial-style taxing system. The TCJA required companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously deferred and also created new taxes on certain types of foreign earnings. As of December 31, 2017, we made a reasonable estimate of the (a) effects on our existing deferred tax balances, and (b) the one-time transition tax. Consequently, our fourth quarter of 2017 and full year 2017 results of operations reflected a non-cash provisional net expense of $104 million. We finalized our accounting for the TCJA in December of 2018 and our results for the fourth quarter of 2018 and full year 2018 results of operations reflect, in accordance with SAB 118, a reduction in tax expense of $252 million as an adjustment to the 2017 provisional expense. This was primarily comprised of a net tax benefit of $57 million relating to finalizing the calculation of the transition tax (including withholding taxes) together with a net tax benefit of $195 million associated with the re-measurement of our deferred taxes.
The TCJA imposed a U.S. tax on global intangible low taxed income (“GILTI”) that is earned by certain foreign affiliates owned by a U.S. shareholder and was intended to tax earnings of a foreign corporation that are deemed to be in excess of certain threshold return. As of December 31, 2018, Nielsen made a policy decision and elected to treat taxes on GILTI as a current period expense and have reflected as such within the financial statements as of December 31, 2019 as well.
As part of an intercompany restructuring during the year ended December 31, 2018, we transferred certain intellectual property assets between wholly- owned legal entities in non-U.S. tax jurisdictions. As the impact of the transfer was the result of an intra-entity transaction, the resulting gain on the transfer was eliminated for purposes of the consolidated financial statements. The transferring entity recognized a gain on the transfer of assets that was not subject to income tax in its local jurisdiction. In accordance with ASU 2016-16, which the Company adopted in the first quarter of 2018, and as further described in Note 1. “Significant Accounting Policies”, Nielsen recorded an income tax benefit of approximately $193 million.
Throughout 2019, ongoing federal and international audits were effectively settled in certain tax jurisdictions and the impact was recorded accordingly the financial statements.
The components of income/(loss) before income taxes and equity in net income of affiliates, were:
The above amounts for UK and non-UK activities were determined based on the location of the taxing authorities.