Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Operating Leases
The Company leases certain of its corporate, manufacturing and other facilities from multiple third- party real estate developers. The operating leases expire at various dates through 2034, and some of these leases have renewal options, with the longest ranging up to two, ten-year periods. Several of these leases also include market rate rent escalations, rent holidays, and leasehold improvement incentives, all of which are recognized to expense on a straight-line basis. Leasehold improvements made either at the inception of the lease or during the lease term are amortized over the lesser of the remaining life of the lease term (including renewals that are reasonably assured) or the useful life of the asset. The Company also leases various machinery and equipment and office equipment under non-cancelable operating leases. The remaining terms of these operating leases range from less than one year to approximately 15 years.
Rent expense under operating leases, covering facilities and equipment, was approximately $19.3 million, $16.3 million, and $14.8 million for fiscal years 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Capital Leases
In fiscal 2018, the Company entered into a capital lease for a facility in Beijing, China that will allow the Company to consolidate several leased facilities as well as provide additional manufacturing space. The lease term is expected to commence in fiscal 2021 and therefore is not recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 30, 2019. The lease has an initial term of five years and includes multiple renewal options, with the maximum lease term not to exceed 30 years. The minimum future payments for this lease are included in the table below.
Purchase commitments
The Company’s other purchase commitments include payments due for materials and manufacturing services. The Company also has commitments for the purchase of property and equipment, a substantial majority of which will be due within the next 12 months.
The Company’s minimum payments under non-cancelable leases and purchase commitments as of March 30, 2019, are as follows (in thousands):