Plan Summaries
As of January 3, 2020, the Company had stock-based compensation awards outstanding under the following plans: the 2017 Omnibus Incentive Plan, 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended, and the 2006 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended ("ESPP"). Leidos issues new shares upon the issuance of the vesting of stock units or exercising of stock options under these plans.
In fiscal 2017, stockholders approved the 2017 Omnibus Incentive Plan which provides the Company and its affiliates' employees, directors and consultants the opportunity to receive various types of stock-based compensation awards, such as stock options, restricted stock units and performance-based awards, as well as cash awards.
The Company grants service-based awards that generally vest or become exercisable 25% a year over four years or cliff vest in three years. As of January 3, 2020, 4.4 million shares of Leidos' stock were reserved for future issuance under the 2017 Omnibus Incentive Plan and the 2006 Equity Incentive Plan.
The Company offers eligible employees the opportunity to defer restricted stock units into an equity-based deferred equity compensation plan, the Key Executive Stock Deferral Plan ("KESDP"). Prior to 2013, the Company offered an additional opportunity for deferrals into the Management Stock Compensation Plan ("MSCP"). Benefits from these plans are payable in shares of Leidos' stock that are held in a trust for the purpose of funding shares to the plans' participants.
Restricted stock units deferred under the KESDP are counted against the total shares available for future issuance under the 2017 Omnibus Incentive Plan. All awards under the MSCP are fully vested and the plan does not provide for a maximum number of shares available for future issuance.
The Company's ESPP allows eligible employees to purchase shares of Leidos' stock at a discount of up to 15% of the fair market value on the date of purchase. During the first half of fiscal 2018 and 2017, the discount was 5% of the fair market value on the date of purchase, thereby resulting in the ESPP being non-compensatory. Effective the second half of fiscal 2018, the Company increased the discount to 10% of the fair market value on the date of purchase, resulting in the ESPP being compensatory.
During fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, $25 million, $11 million and $10 million, respectively, was received from ESPP plan participants for the issuance of Leidos' stock. A total of 4.2 million shares remain available for future issuance under the ESPP.
Stock-based compensation and related tax benefits recognized under all plans were as follows: