In November 2016, the FASB issued guidance that requires entities to show the changes in the total of cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows. The guidance is effective for annual reporting periods and interim periods within those annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, our fiscal 2019. The retrospective transition method should be applied. We adopted this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and it did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In October 2016, the FASB issued guidance that requires companies to recognize the income tax effects of intercompany sales and transfers of assets, other than
inventory, in the period in which the transfer occurs. The guidance is effective for annual reporting periods and interim periods within those annual reporting
periods beginning after December 15, 2017, our fiscal 2019. The modified retrospective transition method should be applied. We adopted this guidance in the first
quarter of fiscal 2019 and it did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In August 2016, the FASB issued guidance that aims to eliminate diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows. The guidance is effective for annual reporting periods and interim periods within those annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, our fiscal 2019. The retrospective transition method should be applied. We adopted this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and it did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
n January 2016, the FASB issued guidance that requires most equity investments be measured at fair value, with subsequent other changes in fair value recognized in net income. The guidance also impacts financial liabilities under the fair value option and the presentation and disclosure requirements on the classification and measurement of financial instruments. The guidance is effective for annual reporting periods and interim periods within those annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, our fiscal 2019. It should be applied by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption, unless equity securities do not have readily determinable fair values, in which case the amendments should be applied prospectively. We adopted this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. We did not use prospective amendments for any investments and adoption did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
The following reconciliations provide the effect of the reclassification of the net periodic benefit cost from operating expenses to other (income) expense in our consolidated statements of income for fiscal year 2018 and 2017 (in millions):