CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS
The following table summarizes our significant financial contractual obligations at January 31, 2019, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods.
(1) This table generally excludes amounts already recorded on the balance sheet as current liabilities, certain purchase obligations as discussed below, long term deferred revenue, and amounts related to income tax liabilities for uncertain tax positions, since we cannot predict with reasonable reliability the timing of cash settlements to the respective taxing authorities (see Part II, Item 8, Note 5, “Income Taxes” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).
Notes consist of the Notes issued in December 2012, June 2015 and June 2017. See Part II, Item 8, Note 8, "Borrowing Arrangements," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion..
Term loan consists of the Term Loan Agreement entered into on December 17, 2018 as described above.
Operating lease obligations consist primarily of obligations for facilities, net of sublease income, computer equipment and other equipment leases
Purchase obligations are contractual obligations for purchase of goods or services and are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding on Autodesk and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum, or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations relate primarily to enterprise subscription agreements, IT infrastructure costs, and marketing costs
Deferred compensation obligations relate to amounts held in a rabbi trust under our non-qualified deferred compensation plan. See Part II, Item 8, Note 7, “Deferred Compensation,” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding this plan.
Pension obligations relate to our obligations for pension plans outside of the U.S. See Part II, Item 8, Note 15, “Retirement Benefit Plans,” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding these obligations.
Asset retirement obligations represent the estimated costs to bring certain office buildings that we lease back to their original condition after the termination of the lease
Purchase orders or contracts for the purchase of supplies and other goods and services are not included in the table above. We are not able to determine the aggregate amount of such purchase orders that represent contractual obligations, as purchase orders may represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. Our purchase orders are based on our current procurement or development needs and are fulfilled by our vendors within short time horizons. We do not have significant agreements for the purchase of supplies or other goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our expected requirements for three months. In addition, we have certain software royalty commitments associated with the shipment and licensing of certain products.
The expected timing of payment of the obligations discussed above is estimated based on current information. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the time of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed upon amounts for some obligations.
We provide indemnifications of varying scopes and certain guarantees, including limited product warranties. Historically, costs related to these warranties and indemnifications have not been significant, but because potential future costs are highly variable, we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these guarantees on our future results of operations