3.4 Trail commission asset
Recognition, measurement and classification
The Group has elected to account for trail commission revenue at the time of selling a product to which trail commission attaches, rather than on the basis of actual payments received from the relevant fund or providers involved. On initial recognition, trail commission revenue and assets are recognised at expected value. Subsequent to initial recognition and measurement, the carrying amount of the trail commission asset is adjusted to reflect actual and revised estimated cash flows. The resulting adjustment is recognised as revenue or against revenue in profit or loss.
Cash receipts that are expected to be received within 12 months of the reporting date are classified as current. All other expected cash receipts are classified as non-current.
Key estimates – trail commission revenue and asset
This method of revenue recognition and valuation of trail commission asset requires the Directors and management to make certain estimates and assumptions based on industry data and the historical experience of the Group.
Attrition rates in Health are particularly relevant to the overall trail commission asset considering the relative size of the Health trail commission asset. Attrition rates vary substantially by provider and also by the duration of time the policy has been in force, with rates generally higher in policies under two years old. The attrition rates used in the valuation of the Health portfolio at 30 June 2019 ranged from 7.5% and 26.5% (2018: 7.5% and 26.5%). The simple average duration band attrition increase was up to 0.2% during the period, with higher increases experienced for policies that have been in force for shorter periods of time.
In undertaking this responsibility, the Group engages Deloitte Actuaries and Consultants Limited, a firm of consulting actuaries, to assist in reviewing the accuracy of assumptions for health, mortgages and life trail revenue. These estimates and assumptions include, but are not limited to: termination or lapse rates, mortality rates, inflation, forecast fund premium increases and the estimated impact of known Australian Federal and State Government policies.
These variable considerations are constrained to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved. In determining the extent of constraint necessary to ensure to a high probability that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur, the Group performs a detailed assessment of the accuracy of previously forecast assumptions against historical results.