Base Salary. The base salary for each NEO is determined on the basis of the following factors: scope of responsibilities, experience, skills, performance, expected future contribution, base salary levels in effect for comparable positions at the companies in the Peer Group (as described on page 42 below under “Use of Peer Group Compensation Data”) and other competitive market factors. Generally, the Committee reviews the base salary levels of our NEOs annually as part of the Company’s performance review process as well as upon a promotion or other change of position or level of responsibility. Merit-based increases to the base salaries of our NEOs (other than our CEO) are recommended by our CEO to the Committee, and all increases are based on the Committee’s (and in the case of our CEO, the Board’s) review and assessment of the factors described above.
The Compensation Committee reviews compensation levels at the beginning of each fiscal year and adjusts as needed based upon market data and executive achievement. The Committee reviewed the base salaries of our executive officers, including our NEOs, for fiscal year 2019 and increased the salaries of our CEO and CFO in light of their contributions in fiscal year 2018, including, among other considerations, the successful execution and integration of the AvComm and Wireless acquisition and to reflect the Committee’s review of current peer and market compensation data. Mr. Staley’s salary was also increased to reflect the Committee’s review of current peer and market compensation data as well as his contributions in fiscal year 2019, including the integration of AvComm and Wireless sales into our global sales organization. The Committee did not increase the salaries of any of our other NEOs because the Committee determined that the existing base salaries were appropriate for each of these NEOs.
Actual base salaries paid to our NEOs in fiscal year 2019 are set forth in the “Salary” column of the Fiscal 2019 Summary Compensation Table on page 44.