ICAR Vision Systems, S.L.
On October 16, 2017, Mitek Holding B.V., a company incorporated under the laws of The Netherlands and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (“Mitek Holding B.V.”), acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of ICAR, a company incorporated under the laws of Spain (the “ICAR Acquisition”), and each of its subsidiaries, pursuant to a Share Purchase Agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”), by and among, the Company, Mitek Holding B.V., and each of the shareholders of ICAR (the “Sellers”). ICAR is a technology provider of identity fraud proofing and document management solutions for web, desktop, and mobile platforms. Upon completion of the ICAR Acquisition, ICAR became a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Mitek Holding B.V. and an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. ICAR is a leading provider of consumer identity verification solutions in Spain and Latin America. The ICAR Acquisition strengthens the Company’s position as a global digital identity verification powerhouse in the Consumer Identity and Access Management solutions market.
As consideration for the ICAR Acquisition, the Company agreed to an aggregate purchase price of up to $13.9 million, net of cash acquired. On October 16, 2017, the Company: (i) made a cash payment to Sellers of $3.0 million, net of cash acquired and subject to adjustments for transaction expenses, escrow amounts, indebtedness, and working capital adjustments; and (ii) issued to Sellers 584,291 shares, or $5.6 million, of Common Stock. In addition to the foregoing, the Sellers may be entitled to additional cash consideration upon achievement of certain milestones as follows: (a) subject to achievement of the revenue target for the fourth quarter of calendar 2017, the Company will pay to Sellers up to $1.5 million (the “Q4 Consideration”), which amount shall be deposited (as additional funds) into the escrow fund described below; and (b) subject to achievement of certain revenue and net income targets for ICAR for the twelve-month period ending on September 30, 2018, and the twelve-month period ending on September 30, 2019, the Company will pay to Sellers up to $3.8 million in additional cash consideration (the “Earnout Consideration”); provided that if the revenue target set forth in clause (a) is not met, then the Q4 Consideration will instead be added to the Earnout Consideration payable upon (and subject to) achievement of the revenue and net income targets for the twelve-month period ending on September 30, 2018. The Company estimated the fair value of the total Q4 Consideration and Earnout Consideration to be $2.9 million on October 16, 2017, which was determined using a discounted cash flow methodology based on financial forecasts determined by management that included assumptions about revenue growth and discount rates. Each quarter the Company revises the estimated fair value of the Earnout Consideration and revises as necessary.
The Company incurred $0.5 million of expense in connection with the ICAR Acquisition primarily related to legal fees, outside service costs, and travel expense, which are included in acquisition-related costs and expenses in the consolidated statements of operations and other comprehensive income (loss).
On October 16, 2017, the Company deposited $1.5 million of cash into an escrow fund to serve as collateral and partial security for working capital adjustments and certain indemnification rights. In April 2018, the Q4 Consideration of $1.5 million was deposited into the escrow fund. As a result of the achievement of earnout targets during fiscal 2018, the Company paid $1.8 million in January 2019. The Company intends to extend the period over which the remaining $1.8 million of earnout consideration is earned. A portion of the earnout consideration will be paid during first quarter of fiscal 2020 based on the achievement of revenue and income targets earned during fiscal 2019. The remaining portion of the earnout consideration will be paid out during the first quarter of fiscal 2021, which will be based on the achievement of certain revenue, income, development and corporate targets achieved during fiscal 2020. During the first quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company released all escrow funds, excluding $1.0 million which is being held for any potential settlement relating to the claims which may arise from the litigation which was brought on by Global Equity & Corporate Consulting, S.L. against ICAR as more fully described in Note 9.
The Company used cash on hand for cash paid on October 16, 2017, and under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Company has agreed to guarantee the obligations of Mitek Holding B.V. thereunder.
Acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method of accounting in accordance with ASC Topic 805,Business Combinations. Accordingly, the results of operations of A2iA and ICAR have been included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements since the date of each acquisition. The purchase price for both the A2iA Acquisition and the ICAR Acquisition have been allocated to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon the respective estimates of fair value as of the date of each acquisition, and are based on assumptions that the Company’s management believes are reasonable given the information currently available.
The following table summarizes the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed during the year ended September 30, 2018 a(mounts shown in thousands):
The goodwill recognized is due to expected synergies and other factors and is not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes. The Company estimated the fair value of identifiable acquisition-related intangible assets with definite lives primarily based on discounted cash flow projections that will arise from these assets. The Company exercised significant judgment with regard to assumptions used in the determination of fair value such as with respect to discount rates and the determination of the estimated useful lives of the intangible assets.