Information about VMware’s payments for such arrangements during the periods presented consisted of the following (table in millions):
1) Amount includes indirect taxes that were remitted to Dell during the periods presented.
VMware also purchases Dell products through Dell’s channel partners. Purchases of Dell products through Dell’s channel partners were not significant during the periods presented.
From time to time, VMware and Dell also enter into joint marketing, sales, branding and product development arrangements, for which both parties may incur costs.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, VMware entered into an arrangement with Dell to transfer approximately 250 professional services employees from Dell to VMware. These employees are experienced in providing professional services delivering VMware technology and this transfer centralizes these resources within the Company in order to serve its customers more efficiently and effectively. The transfer was substantially completed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 and did not have a material impact to the consolidated financial statements. VMware also expects that Dell will resell VMware consulting solutions.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2019, VMware acquired technology and employees related to the Dell EMC Service Assurance Suite, which provides root cause analysis management software for communications service providers, from Dell. The purchase of the Dell EMC Service Assurance Suite was accounted for as a transaction by entities under common control. The amount of the purchase price in excess of the historical cost of the acquired assets was recognized as a reduction to retained earnings on the consolidated balance sheets. Transition services were provided by Dell over a period of 18 months, starting from the date of the acquisition, which were not significant.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2018, VMware acquired Wavefront, Inc. (“Wavefront”). Upon closing of the acquisition, Dell was paid $20 million in cash for its non-controlling ownership interest in Wavefront.