Other Acquisitions, Divestitures and Investments
On June 15, 2018, we acquired all the outstanding minority interests in a third party for $6.9 million. We initially acquired a controlling interest in the third party in April 2015. Therefore, this transaction was treated as an equity transaction, and the cash payment is reported as part of cash flow from financing activities in the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2018.
On April 2, 2018, we sold substantially all of the assets of the Allscripts’ business providing hospitals and health systems document and other content management software and services generally known as “OneContent” to Hyland Software, Inc., an Ohio corporation (“Hyland”). Allscripts acquired the OneContent business during the fourth quarter of 2017 through the acquisition of the EIS Business (as defined below). Certain assets of Allscripts relating to the OneContent business were excluded from the transaction and retained by Allscripts.
In addition, Hyland assumed certain liabilities related to the OneContent business. The total consideration for the OneContent business was $260 million, which was subject to certain adjustments for liabilities assumed by Hyland and net working capital. We realized a pre-tax gain upon sale of $177.9 million which is included in the “Gain on sales of businesses, net” line in our consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2018.
On March 15, 2018, we contributed certain assets and liabilities of our Strategic Sourcing business unit, acquired as part of the acquisition of the EIS Business in 2017, into a new entity together with $2.7 million of cash as additional consideration. In exchange for our contributions, we obtained a 35.7% interest in the new entity, which was valued at $4.0 million, and is included in Other assets in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2018.
This investment is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. As a result of this transaction, we recognized an initial pre-tax loss of $0.9 million and $4.7 million in additional losses due to measurement period adjustments upon the finalization of carve-out balances, mainly related to accounts receivable. These losses are included on the “Gain on sale of businesses, net” line in our consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2018.
On February 6, 2018, we acquired all of the common stock of a cloud-based analytics software platform provider for a purchase price of $8.0 million in cash. The allocation of the consideration is as follows: $1.1 million of intangible assets related to technology; $0.6 million to customer relationships; $6.6 million of goodwill; $0.8 million to accounts receivable; deferred revenue of $0.6 million and $0.5 million of long-term deferred income tax liabilities.
The allocation was finalized in the fourth quarter of 2018. The acquired intangible asset related to technology will be amortized over 8 years using a method that approximates the pattern of economic benefits to be gained from the intangible asset. The customer relationship was amortized over one year. The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. The results of operations of this acquisition were not material to our consolidated financial statements.
The following table summarizes our other equity investments which are included in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets: (1) Allscripts share of the earnings of our equity method investees is reported based on a one quarter lag.
During 2018, we acquired certain non-marketable equity securities of two third parties and entered into a commercial agreement with one of the third parties for total consideration of $11.7 million. During 2018, we also acquired a $1.8 million non-marketable convertible note of a third party. These investments are recorded in the Other asset caption within the consolidated balance sheets.
It is not practicable to estimate the fair value of our equity investments primarily because of their illiquidity and restricted marketability as of December 31, 2019. The factors we considered in trying to determine fair value include, but are not limited to, available financial information, the issuer’s ability to meet its current obligations and the issuer’s subsequent or planned raises of capital.