18. Business Segments
We primarily derive our revenues from sales of our proprietary software (either as a direct license sale or under a subscription delivery model), which also serves as the basis for our recurring service contracts for software support and maintenance and certain transaction-related services. In addition, we provide various other client services, including installation, and managed services such as outsourcing, private cloud hosting and revenue cycle management.
During the first quarter of 2019, we realigned our reporting structure as a result of the divestiture of our investment in Netsmart on December 31, 2018, the evolution of the healthcare IT industry and our increased focus on the payer and life sciences market. As a result, we changed the presentation of our reportable segments to Provider and Veradigm. The new Provider segment is comprised of our core integrated clinical software applications, financial management and patient engagement solutions targeted at clients across the entire continuum of care. The new Veradigm segment primarily focuses on the payer and life sciences market. These changes to our reportable segments had no impact on operating segments. The segment disclosures below for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 have been revised to our current presentation.
We sold all of our investment in Netsmart on December 31, 2018. Prior to the sale, Netsmart comprised a separate reportable segment, which due to its significance to our historical consolidated financial statements and results of operations, is reported as a discontinued operation as a result of the sale. In addition, the results of operations related to two of the product offerings acquired with the EIS Business (Horizon Clinicals and Series2000) are also presented throughout these financial statements as discontinued operations and are included within the Provider reportable segment, except for acquisition-related deferred revenue adjustments, which are included in “Unallocated Amounts”. Refer to Note 17, “Discontinued Operations.”
As a result of the above changes, as of December 31, 2019, we had eight operating segments, which are aggregated into two reportable segments. The Provider reportable segment includes the Hospitals and Health Systems, Ambulatory, CarePort, FollowMyHealth®, EPSiTM, EIS-Classics and 2bPrecise strategic business units, each of which represents a separate operating segment. This reportable segment derives its revenue from the sale of integrated clinical software applications, financial management and patient engagement solutions, which primarily include EHR-related software, connectivity and coordinated care solutions, financial and practice management software, related installation, support and maintenance, outsourcing, private cloud hosting, revenue cycle management, training and electronic claims administration services. The Veradigm reportable segment is comprised of the Veradigm business unit, which represents a separate operating segment. This reportable segment provides data-driven clinical insights with actionable tools for clinical workflow, research, analytics and media. Its solutions, targeted at key healthcare stakeholders, help improve the quality, efficiency and value of healthcare delivery.
Our Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”) uses segment revenues, gross profit and income from operations as measures of performance and to make decisions about the allocation of resources. In determining these performance measures, we do not include in revenue the amortization of acquisition- related deferred revenue adjustments, which reflect the fair value adjustments to deferred revenue acquired in a business combination. We also exclude the amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation expense, non-recurring expenses and transaction-related costs, and non-cash asset impairment charges from the operating segment data provided to our CODM. Non-recurring expenses relate to certain severance, product consolidation, legal, consulting and other charges incurred in connection with activities that are considered one-time. Accordingly, these amounts are not included in our reportable segment results and are included in an “Unallocated Amounts” category within our segment disclosure. The “Unallocated Amounts” category also includes (i) corporate general and administrative expenses (including marketing expenses) and certain research and development expenses related to common solutions and resources that benefit all of our business units (refer to discussion above), all of which are centrally managed and (ii) revenue and the associated cost from the resale of certain ancillary products, primarily hardware. We do not track our assets by segment.