A segment-level summary of the goodwill allocation is presented below.
The recoverable amount of the group’s intangible assets has been assessed based on value-in-use calculations. The value in use is calculated using a discounted cash flow methodology covering a four year period plus terminal value.
Cash flow forecasts 

Cash flow forecasts are post-tax and based on the most recent financial projections covering a maximum of five years. Financial projections are based on assumptions that represent management’s best estimates.
Revenue growth rates 

Revenue growth rates used are based on management’s latest four-year plan. Four-year growth rates averaged between 8.8% to 12.1% for these CGUs (Board & Systems - Americas 8.8%, Board & Systems - EMEA 12.1% and Parts Analytics and Search 11.8%). Sensitivity testing was performed on these CGUs and a reasonably possible decline in these rates would not cause the carrying value of any of these CGUs to exceed its recoverable amount.
Terminal value 

The terminal value calculated after year four is determined using the perpetual growth model, having regard to the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) and terminal growth factor appropriate to each CGU. Terminal growth rates used in the financial projections was 2.0%.
Discount rates 

Discount rates used are WACC and include a premium for market risks appropriate to each country in which the CGU operates. WACCs averaged 8.9% (Board & Systems - Americas 9.1%, Board & Systems - EMEA 8.6% and Parts Analytics and Search 9.1%).
Sensitivity  Any reasonable change to the above key assumptions would not cause the carrying value of any of the remaining CGU’s to materially exceed its recoverable amount.
Accounting policy for intangible assets
Goodwill 

Goodwill arises on the acquisition of a business. Goodwill is not amortised. Instead, goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired, and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Impairment losses on goodwill are taken to profit or loss and are not subsequently reversed.
Intellectual property 

Significant costs associated with intellectual property are deferred and amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of their expected benefit, being their finite life of 5 to 10 years.
Customer relationships 

Customer relationships acquired in a business combination are amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of their expected benefit, being their finite life of 10 to 15 years.
Software intangibles 

Software intangibles arise from costs associated with the direct development and implementation on an internal project on new and existing software utilised by the group which demonstrates the technical feasibility of providing future economic benefits and amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of their expected benefit, being their finite life of 2 to 5 years.
Accounting policy for intangible assets