Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - (Continued) Fiscal Years Ended May 26, 2019, May 27, 2018, and May 28, 2017 (columnar dollars in millions except per share amounts) 3. RESTRUCTURING ACTIVITIES
Pinnacle Integration Restructuring Plan
In December 2018, our Board of Directors (the "Board") approved a restructuring and integration plan related to the ongoing integration of the recently acquired operations of Pinnacle (the "Pinnacle Integration Restructuring Plan") for the purpose of achieving significant cost synergies between the companies. We expect to incur material charges for exit and disposal activities under U.S. GAAP. Although we remain unable to make good faith estimates relating to the entire Pinnacle Integration Restructuring Plan, we are reporting on actions initiated through the end of fiscal 2019, including the estimated amounts or range of amounts for each major type of costs expected to be incurred, and the charges that have resulted or will result in cash outflows. We expect to incur up to $360.0 million of operational expenditures ($285.0 million of cash charges and $75.0 million of non-cash charges) as well as $85.0 million of capital expenditures under the Pinnacle Integration Restructuring Plan. We have incurred or expect to incur approximately $260.1 million of charges ($254.0 million of cash charges and $6.1 million of non-cash charges) for actions identified to date under the Pinnacle Integration Restructuring Plan. We expect to incur costs related to the Pinnacle Integration Restructuring Plan over a three-year period.  In December 2018, our Board of Directors (the "Board") approved a restructuring and integration plan related to the ongoing integration of the recently acquired operations of Pinnacle (the "Pinnacle Integration Restructuring Plan") for the purpose of achieving significant cost synergies between the companies. We expect to incur material charges for exit and disposal activities under U.S. GAAP. Although we remain unable to make good faith estimates relating to the entire Pinnacle Integration Restructuring Plan, we are reporting on actions initiated through the end of fiscal 2019, including the estimated amounts or range of amounts for each major type of costs expected to be incurred, and the charges that have resulted or will result in cash outflows. We expect to incur up to $360.0 million of operational expenditures ($285.0 million of cash charges and $75.0 million of non-cash charges) as well as $85.0 million of capital expenditures under the Pinnacle Integration Restructuring Plan. We have incurred or expect to incur approximately $260.1 million of charges ($254.0 million of cash charges and $6.1 million of non-cash charges) for actions identified to date under the Pinnacle Integration Restructuring Plan. We expect to incur costs related to the Pinnacle Integration Restructuring Plan over a three-year period.  In December 2018, our Board of Directors (the "Board") approved a restructuring and integration plan related to the ongoing integration of the recently acquired operations of Pinnacle (the "Pinnacle Integration Restructuring Plan") for the purpose of achieving significant cost synergies between the companies. We expect to incur material charges for exit and disposal activities under U.S. GAAP. Although we remain unable to make good faith estimates relating to the entire Pinnacle Integration Restructuring Plan, we are reporting on actions initiated through the end of fiscal 2019, including the estimated amounts or range of amounts for each major type of costs expected to be incurred, and the charges that have resulted or will result in cash outflows. We expect to incur up to $360.0 million of operational expenditures ($285.0 million of cash charges and $75.0 million of non-cash charges) as well as $85.0 million of capital expenditures under the Pinnacle Integration Restructuring Plan. We have incurred or expect to incur approximately $260.1 million of charges ($254.0 million of cash charges and $6.1 million of non-cash charges) for actions identified to date under the Pinnacle Integration Restructuring Plan. We expect to incur costs related to the Pinnacle Integration Restructuring Plan over a three-year period.
We anticipate that we will recognize the following pre-tax expenses in association with the Pinnacle Integration Restructuring Plan (amounts include charges recognized from plan inception through the end of fiscal 2019):