Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services
The following table sets forth the fees for services provided and reasonably expected to be billed by Malone Bailey LLP. The following is a summary of the fees billed to the Company for professional services rendered for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018.
Audit Fees: For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate audit fees billed by our independent auditors were for professional services rendered for
audits and quarterly reviews of our consolidated financial statements, and assistance with reviews of registration statements and documents filed with the SEC.
Audit-Related Fees: Audit-related fees are for assurance and other activities not explicitly related to the audit of our financial statements.
Tax Fees: For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, there were no tax fees, respectively.
All Other Fees: For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, there were $0 and $0, respectively.
Audit Committee Pre-Approval Policies and Procedures. The Audit Committee oversees and monitors our financial reporting process and internal control system, reviews and
evaluates the audit performed by our registered independent public accountants and reports to the Board any substantive issues found during the audit. The Audit Committee
is directly responsible for the appointment, compensation and oversight of the work of our registered independent public accountants. The Audit Committee convenes on a
quarterly basis to approve each quarterly filing, and an annual basis to review the engagement of the Company’s external auditor.
The Audit Committee has considered whether the provision of Audit-Related Fees, Tax Fees, and all other fees as described above is compatible with maintaining
Marcum LLP’s and Malone Bailey LLP’s independence and has determined that such services for fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively, were compatible. All such services
were approved by the Audit Committee pursuant to Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X under the Exchange Act to the extent that rule was applicable.