Base Salary
Base salary for our named executive officers is the fixed component of our executive compensation program. We use base salary to compensate our named executive officers for services rendered during the year and to recognize the experience, skills, knowledge and responsibilities required of each named executive officer. We apply no specific formula to determine adjustments to base salary. Adjustments to base salary have been made to reflect our economic condition and future expected performance. We continue to provide base salaries that are conservative relative to competitive market pay levels.
In April 2018, our compensation committee reviewed the base salaries of Mses. Friar, Henry, Reses and Whiteley, taking into consideration a competitive market analysis performed by Compensia, the recommendations of our CEO and our then-current People Lead, the desire to retain our highly qualified executive team and the other factors described above. Following this review, our compensation committee approved an increase in the annual base salary levels for Mses. Friar, Henry, Reses and Whiteley to $400,000, in each case effective as of April 1, 2018, in order to improve competitive alignment with our peers. In addition, our compensation committee determined that it was appropriate to leave our CEO’s 2018 base salary level at $2.75 per year, at the request of our CEO and with compensation committee approval.
The annualized base salaries of our named executive officers as of December 31, 2018 compared to December 31, 2017 were:
(1) Ms. Friar resigned from her position as Chief Financial Officer, effective as of November 16, 2018, at which time her annual base salary was $400,000.
(2) Ms. Whiteley was appointed to General Counsel and Corporate Secretary effective March 18, 2018, and her salary was adjusted to reflect her promotion to this role.
(3) The base salaries of Messrs. Daswani and Murphy were not adjusted in conjunction with their service as interim co-CFOs. Salary adjustments for Messrs. Daswani and Murphy made in April 2018, prior to their becoming named executive officers, were made as part of the company-wide compensation review program. Their salary adjustments were recommended by their direct manager and approved by the then-current People Lead. Messrs. Daswani and Murphy’s annualized base salaries at the time of their appointment as interim co-CFOs were $300,000 and $295,000, respectively.