14. Segment Information
The Company operates under two reportable segments based on the geographic locations of its subsidiaries:
(1)  FEI-NY – operates out of New York and its operations consist principally of precision time and frequency control products used in three principal markets- communication satellites (both commercial and U.S. Government-funded); terrestrial cellular telephone or other ground-based telecommunication stations; and other components and systems for the U.S. military.
The FEI-NY segment also includes the operations of the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiaries, FEI-Elcom and FEI-Asia. FEI- Asia functions as a manufacturing facility for the FEI-NY segment with historically minimal sales to outside customers. FEI- Elcom, in addition to its own product line, provides design and technical support for the FEI-NY segment’s satellite business.
(2)  FEI-Zyfer – operates out of California and its products incorporate Global Positioning System (GPS) technologies into systems and subsystems for secure communications, both government and commercial, and other locator applications. This segment also provides sales and support for the Company’s wireline telecommunications family of products, including US5G, which are sold in the U. S. market.
The Company measures segment performance based on total revenues and profits generated by each geographic location rather than on the specific types of customers or end-users. Consequently, the Company determined that the segments indicated above most appropriately reflect the way the Company’s management views the business.
The accounting policies of the two segments are the same as those described in the “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.” The Company evaluates the performance of its segments and allocates resources to them based on operating profit which is defined as income before investment income, interest expense and taxes. All acquired assets, including intangible assets, are included in the assets of both reporting segments.
The table below presents information about reported segments for each of the years ended April 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, with reconciliation of segment amounts to consolidated amounts as reported in the statement of operations or the balance sheet for each of the years (in thousands):