Charters-in
As of December 31, 2019, the Company had commitments to charter-in 11 vessels, which are all bareboat charters. During the second quarter of 2019, the Company commenced a bareboat charter for the Overseas Key West for a lease term of 10 years. Based on the length of the lease term and the remaining economic life of the vessel, it is accounted for as a finance lease. The remaining 10 chartered-in vessels are accounted for as operating leases.
The right-of-use asset accounted for as a finance lease arrangement is reported in vessels and other property, less accumulated depreciation on our consolidated balance sheets. The Company holds options for 10 of the vessels chartered-in that can be exercised for one, three or five years with the one-year option only usable once, while the three- and five-year options are available indefinitely.
The lease payments for the charters-in are fixed throughout the option periods and the options are on a vessel-by-vessel basis that can be exercised individually. The Company exercised its option on one of its vessels to extend the term until June 2025. On December 10, 2018, the Company exercised its options to extend the terms of the other nine vessels.
Terms for five of the vessels were extended for an additional three years, with terms ending in December 2022, and terms for four of the vessels were extended for an additional year, with terms ending December 2020. On December 11, 2019, the terms for the four vessels ending December 2020 were extended for an additional three years, with terms ending in December 2023.
Five of the Company's chartered in vessels contain a deferred payment obligation (“DPO”) which relates to charter hire expense incurred by the Company in prior years and payable to the vessel owner in future periods. This DPO is due in quarterly installments with the final quarterly payment due upon lease termination.
The future minimum commitments under these leases are as follows:
The bareboat charters-in provide for variable lease payments in the form of profit share to the owners of the vessels calculated in accordance with the respective charter agreements or based on time charter sublease revenue. Because such amounts and the periods impacted are not reasonably estimable, they are not currently reflected in the table above. Due to reserve funding requirements and current rate forecasts, no profits are currently expected to be paid to the owners in respect of the charter term within the next year.
For the year ended December 31, 2019, lease expense for the 10 chartered-in vessels accounted for as operating leases was $90,359, which is included in charter hire expense on the consolidated statements of operations and operating cash flows on the consolidated statements of cash flows. The Company recognized sublease income of $188,163 for the year ended December 31, 2019.
For the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company had non-cash operating activities of $93,407 for obtaining operating right-of-use assets and liabilities that resulted from exercising lease renewals not assumed in the initial lease term.
For the year ended December 31, 2019, lease expense related to the Company's finance lease was $2,052 related to amortization of the right-of-use asset and $1,462 related to interest on the lease liability. These are included in operating cash flows on the consolidated statements of cash flows. For the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company had non-cash financing activities of $28,993 for obtaining finance right-of-use assets.
For the year ended December 31, 2018, lease expense relating to charters-in was $91,350, which is included in charter hire expense on the consolidated statements of operations.