FLNG segment
Total operating revenues: On May 31, 2018, the Hilli was accepted by the Customer and, accordingly, commenced operations. As a result, she generated $127.6 million total operating revenues in relation to her liquefaction services for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Vessel operating expenses: This represents the vessel operating expenses incurred by the Hilli since she commenced operations.
Project development expenses: This relates to non-capitalized project-related expenses comprising of legal, professional and consultancy costs. The increase for the twelve months ended December 31, 2018 was primarily as a result of increased engineering consultation fees and front-end engineering and design costs in relation to the Gimi GTA project.
Depreciation: Subsequent to the Customer's acceptance of the Hilli, we determined her to be operational and, therefore, depreciation commenced during the second quarter of 2018.
Other operating gains: Includes the realized and unrealized gain on the oil derivative instrument. In 2018, we recognized a realized gain of $26.7 million, and an unrealized fair value loss of $10.0 million, relating to the LTA oil derivative instrument as a result of the increased price of Brent Crude during the year. The derivative asset was recognized upon the LTA becoming effective in December 2017. In 2017, we recognized an unrealized fair value gain of $15.1 million.
For the year ended December 31, 2018, this is partially offset by a $1.3 million write off of capitalized conversion costs in relation to the Gandria. In addition, subsequent to the decision to wind down OneLNG, we wrote off $12.7 million of the trading balance with OneLNG as we deem it to be no longer recoverable.
Equity in net losses of affiliates: Pursuant to the formation of OneLNG in July 2016, we equity account for our share of net losses in OneLNG. Given the difficulties in finalizing an attractive debt financing package along with other capital and resource priorities, in April 2018, Golar and Schlumberger decided to wind down OneLNG and work on FLNG projects as required on a case-by-case basis. As a result, activity levels have been substantially reduced for the year ended December 31, 2018 and the carrying value of the investment was written down to $nil.