ITEM 6. DIRECTORS, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND EMPLOYEES
A. Directors and Senior Management
Set forth below are the names and positions of our directors of the Company and senior management of the Company. The directors of the Company are elected annually, and each elected director holds office until a successor is elected. Officers are elected from time to time by vote of the Board and holds office until a successor is elected. Set forth below are the names and positions of our directors of the Company and senior management of the Company. The directors of the Company are elected annually, and each elected director holds office until a successor is elected. Officers are elected from time to time by vote of the Board and holds office until a successor is elected.
Certain biographical information with respect to each director and senior management of the Company listed above is set forth below. On March 6, 2020, Andreas Ove Ugland, a director and Vice Chairman of the Company and our Audit Committee Chairman, passed. Mr. Ugland had been a valued member of our Board of Directors since 1997.
Herbjørn Hansson earned his M.B.A. at the Norwegian School of Economics and Business Administration and attended Harvard Business School. In 1974 he was employed by the Norwegian Shipowners’ Association. In the period from 1975 to 1980, he was Chief Economist and Research Manager of INTERTANKO, an industry association whose members control about 70% of the world’s independently owned tanker fleet, excluding state owned and oil company fleets. During the 1980s, he was Chief Financial Officer of Kosmos/Anders Jahre, at the time one of the largest Norwegian based shipping and industry groups. In 1989, Mr. Hansson founded Ugland Nordic Shipping AS, or UNS, which became one of the world’s largest owners of specialized shuttle tankers. He served as Chairman in the first phase and as Chief Executive Officer as from 1993 to 2001 when UNS, under his management, was sold to Teekay Shipping Corporation, or Teekay, for an enterprise value of $780.0 million. He continued to work with Teekay, and reached the position of Vice Chairman of Teekay Norway AS, until he started working full-time for the Company on September 1, 2004. Mr. Hansson is the founder and has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since its establishment in 1995. He also has been a member of various governing bodies of companies within shipping, insurance, banking, manufacturing, national/international shipping agencies including classification societies and protection and indemnity associations. Mr. Hansson is fluent in Norwegian and English, and has a command of German and French for conversational purposes.
David Workman has been a director of the Company since November 2019. Mr. Workman has served as Hermitage Offshore Services Ltd.’s Class A Director since December 2013. Mr. Workman was Chief Operating Officer and member of the Supervisory Board of Stork Technical Services, or STS, guided, as Chief Executive Officer, the sale of the RBG Offshore Services Group into the STS group in 2011. Mr. Workman has 30 years of broad experience in the offshore sector ranging from drilling operations/field development through production operations and project management. He has worked with a wide variety of exploration and production companies in the sector and has balanced this with exposure to the service sector, working with management companies. As part of his experience with these different companies, he has had extensive exposure to the North Sea market. Mr. Workman graduated from Imperial College London in 1983 with a Masters in Petroleum Engineering and spent his early years as a Drilling/Production Operations Engineer with BP. In 1987 he joined Hamilton Brothers Oil and Gas who were early adopters of floating production systems. In 1993 he joined Kerr McGee as an operations manager for the Tentech 850 designed Gryphon FPSO, the first permanently moored FPSO in the North Sea. In 1996, Mr. Workman established the service company Atlantic Floating Production, which went on to become the management contractor and duty holder on the John Fredriksen owned Northern Producer and on the Petroleum Geo-Services (PGS) owned Banff FPF. In 2003, Mr. Workman was instrumental in founding Tuscan Energy which went on to redevelop the abandoned Argyll Field in the UK Continental Shelf. In 2009, Mr. Workman was appointed as Chief Executive Officer of STS in 2011.
Richard H. K. Vietor has been a director of the Company since July 2007. Mr. Vietor is the Paul Whiton Cherrington Professor of Business Administration where he teaches courses on the regulation of business and the international political economy. He was appointed Professor in 1984. Before coming to Harvard Business School in 1978, Professor Vietor held faculty appointments at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and the University of Missouri. He received a B.A. in economics from Union College in 1967, an M.A. in history from Hofstra University in 1971, and a Ph.D. from the University of Pittsburgh in 1975.
Alexander Hansson has been a director of the Company since November 2019. Mr. Hansson is an investor in various markets globally and has made several successful investments in both listed and privately held companies. Mr. Hansson is the son of the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and he has built a network over the last 20 years in the shipping and finance sector. He has operated shipping and trading offices in London and Monaco. He studied at EBS Regents College in London, United Kingdom.
Jim Kelly has been a director of the Company since June 2010. Mr. Kelly has worked for Time Inc., the world’s largest magazine publisher, since 1978. He served as Foreign Editor during the fall of the Soviet Union and the first Gulf War, and was named Deputy Managing Editor in 1996. In 2001, Mr. Kelly became the magazine’s managing editor, and during his tenure the magazine won a record four National Magazine awards. In 2004, Time Magazine received its first EMMA for its contribution to the ABC News Series “Iraq: Where Things Stand.” In late 2006, Mr. Kelly became the managing editor of all of Time Inc., helping supervise the work of more than 2,000 journalists working at 125 titles, including Fortune, Money, Sports Illustrated and People. Since 2009, Mr. Kelly has worked as a consultant at Bloomberg LP and taught at Princeton and Columbia Universities. Jim Kelly was elected as member of our Audit Committee in February 2012. Mr. Kelly was appointed as the Chairman of the Audit Committee upon the passing of Mr. Ugland.
Bjørn Giaever joined the Company as Chief Financial Officer and Secretary on October 16, 2017. Mr. Giaever has over 20 years of experience in the shipping & offshore industry, holding key roles in corporate finance and equity research. He joined the Company from Fearnley Securities AS, where he served as partner and director in the Corporate Finance division. From 2006 to 2010, Mr. Giaever served as a senior corporate advisor in the John Fredriksen group in London. In addition, Mr. Giaever has been a top rated Shipping Analyst at DNB Markets and partner at Inge Steensland AS, specializing in gas and maritime matters. Mr. Giaever holds a BSc in business and economics.