ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (United States Dollars in thousands, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated)
Contractual Obligations
Our principal commitments consisted of obligations under our outstanding term loan and operating leases for office facilities. The following table summarizes our commitments to settle contractual obligations in cash as of December 31, 2019.
(1) The principal balance of the term loan is repaid on a quarterly basis at an amortization rate of 0.25% per quarter, with the balance due at maturity
(2) Variable interest payments on our term loan are calculated based on the interest rate as of December 31, 2019 and the scheduled maturity of the underlying term loan.
(3) Amounts presented reflect a quarterly commitment fee rate of 0.375% per annum, and assume that the entire $100 million revolving loan facility is unused (the conditions that existed as of period end) for the duration of the agreement, which matures on March 29, 2023.
(4) Our operating leases are for office space. Certain of these leases contain provisions for rent escalations and/or lease concessions. Rental payments, as well as any step rent provisions specified in the lease agreements, are aggregated and charged evenly to expense over the lease term. However, amounts included herein do not reflect this accounting treatment, as they represent the future contractual lease cash obligations.
The payments that we may be required to make under the TRA to the TRA Parties may be significant and are not reflected in the contractual obligations table set forth above. Refer to Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors–Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure" and to Note 13 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for additional detail.
The payments that we may be required to make under the TRA to the TRA Parties may be significant and are not reflected in the contractual obligations table set forth above. Refer to Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors–Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure" and to Note 13 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for additional detail.