25. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
a) Transactions with Golar Partners and subsidiaries:
Income (expenses):
(i) Management and administrative services revenue - On March 30, 2011, Golar Partners entered into a management and administrative services agreement with Golar Management Limited ("Golar Management"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Golar, pursuant to which Golar Management will provide to Golar Partners certain management and administrative services. The services provided by Golar Management are charged at cost plus a management fee equal to 5% of Golar Management’s costs and expenses incurred in connection with providing these services. Golar Partners may terminate the agreement by providing 120 days written notice.
(ii) Ship management fees - Golar and certain of its affiliates charge ship management fees to Golar Partners for the provision of technical and commercial management of Golar Partners' vessels. Each of Golar Partners’ vessels is subject to management agreements pursuant to which certain commercial and technical management services are provided by Golar Management. Golar Partners may terminate these agreements by providing 30 days written notice.
(iv) Charterhire expenses - This consists of the charterhire expenses that we incurred for the charter back from Golar Partners of the Golar Grand. In connection with the sale of the Golar Grand to Golar Partners in November 2012, we issued an option where, in the event that the charterer did not renew or extend its charter for the Golar Grand beyond February 2015, the Partnership had the option to require us to charter the vessel through to October 2017. In February 2015, the option was exercised. Accordingly, we recognized charterhire costs of $17.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, in relation to the Golar Grand.


(iv) Charterhire expenses - This consists of the charterhire expenses that we incurred for the charter back from Golar Partners of the Golar Grand. In connection with the sale of the Golar Grand to Golar Partners in November 2012, we issued an option where, in the event that the charterer did not renew or extend its charter for the Golar Grand beyond February 2015, the Partnership had the option to require us to charter the vessel through to October 2017. In February 2015, the option was exercised. Accordingly, we recognized charterhire costs of $17.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, in relation to the Golar Grand.
(v) Share options expense - This relates to a recharge of share option expense to Golar Partners in relation to share options in Golar granted to certain of Golar Partners' directors, officers and employees.
(vi) Interest expense on deposits payable
Expense under Tundra Letter Agreement - In May 2016, we completed the Golar Tundra Sale and received a total cash consideration of $107.2 million. We agreed to pay Golar Partners a daily fee plus operating expenses for the right to use the Golar Tundra from the date the Golar Tundra Sale was closed, until the date that the vessel would commence operations under the Golar Tundra Time Charter. In return, Golar Partners agreed to remit to us any hire income received with respect to the Golar Tundra during that period. We have accounted for $nil, $nil and $2.2 million as interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Deferred purchase price - In May 2017, the Golar Tundra had not commenced her charter and, accordingly, Golar Partners elected to exercise the Tundra Put Right to require us to repurchase Tundra Corp at a price equal to the original purchase price. In connection with Golar Partners exercising the Tundra Put Right, we and Golar Partners entered into an agreement pursuant to which we agreed to purchase Tundra Corp from Golar Partners on the date of the closing of the Tundra Put Sale in return we will be required to pay an amount equal to $107.2 million (the "Deferred Purchase Price") plus an additional amount equal to 5% per annum of the Deferred Purchase Price (the "Additional Amount"). The Deferred Purchase Price and the Additional Amount was applied to the net sale price of the Hilli Disposal (defined below) on July 12, 2018. We have accounted for $nil, $2.9 million and $1.1 million as interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Deposit received from Golar Partners - On August 15, 2017, we entered into the Hilli Sale Agreement with Golar Partners for the Hilli, or the Hilli Disposal, from the Sellers of the Hilli Common Units in Hilli LLC. See note 5. Concurrent with the execution of the Hilli Sale Agreement, we received a further $70 million deposit from Golar Partners, upon which we pay interest at a rate of 5% per annum. We applied the deposit received and interest accrued to the purchase price on July 12, 2018, upon completion of the Hilli Disposal. We have accounted for $nil, $1.9 million and $1.3 million, as interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.