Discontinued Operations
On October 27, 2017, we entered into a purchase agreement to sell the Compute business. In consideration for the transfer and sale of the Compute business, we received an equity interest in the buyer valued at approximately $36.5 million, representing the carrying value of the assets divested and representing less than 20.0% of the buyer's total outstanding equity. The operations of the Compute business were accounted for as discontinued operations through the date of divestiture.
We also entered into a transition services agreement (the "Compute TSA"), pursuant to which we agreed to perform certain primarily general and administrative functions on the buyer's behalf during a migration period and for which we are reimbursed for costs incurred.
During the fiscal year 2019, we received $0.1 million of reimbursements under the Compute TSA, which was recorded as a reduction of our general and administrative expenses. During the fiscal year 2018, we received $3.6 million of reimbursements under the Compute TSA, which was recorded as a reduction of our general and administrative expenses.
In August of fiscal year 2015, we sold our Automotive business, as the Automotive business was not consistent with our long-term strategic vision from both a growth and profitability perspective.
Additionally, we entered into a Consulting Agreement with the buyer pursuant to which we were to provide the buyer with certain non-design advisory services for a period of two years following the closing of the transaction for up to $15.0 million, from which we have recorded $7.5 million as other income during both fiscal years 2017 and 2016. No income was recognized during fiscal years 2019 or 2018. During fiscal year 2017, we received $18.0 million, the full amount of the indemnification escrow.
The accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations includes the following operating results related to these discontinued operations (in thousands):
(1) Amounts are associated with the Compute business. (2) Amounts are associated with the Automotive business.