Note 9 – Leases
We have operating leases for office space, automobiles and various other equipment in the U.S. and in certain international locations. We also reviewed other contracts, such as manufacturing agreements and service agreements, for potential embedded leases. We specifically reviewed these other contracts to determine whether we have the right to substantially all of the economic benefit from the use of any specified assets or the right to direct the use of any specified assets, either of which would indicate the existence of a lease.
As of December 31, 2019, our operating leases had remaining lease terms of one month to six years, some of which included options to extend the leases for up to nine years, and some of which included options to terminate the leases within three months. For those leases that are reasonably assured to be renewed, we have included the option to extend as part of our right of use asset and lease liability. Leases with an initial term of 12 months or less were not recorded on the balance sheet and lease expense for these leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease expense related to these short-term leases was $0.4 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2019, and is included in cost of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Lease expense related to variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or rate, such as real estate taxes and insurance reimbursements, was $0.9 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2019. For lease agreements entered into or reassessed after the adoption of Topic 842, we elected to not separate lease and nonlease components. Our lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants.
Supplemental balance sheet information related to operating leases is as follows:
(1) Reflects the adoption of the new lease accounting standard on January 1, 2019.