Products, Support and Professional Services
We are a leading developer and marketer of software enabled solutions and services to the hospitality industry, including: software solutions fully integrated with third party hardware and operating systems; support, maintenance and subscription services; and, professional services. Areas of specialization are point of sale, property management, and a broad range of solutions that support the ecosystem of these core solutions.
We present revenue and costs of goods sold in three categories: • Products (hardware and software) • Support, maintenance and subscription services • Professional services
Total revenue for these three specific areas is as follows:
Products: Products revenue is comprised of revenue from the sale of software along with third party hardware and operating systems. Software sales include up front revenue for licensing our solutions on a perpetual basis. Software sales are driven by our solutions' ability to help our customer meet the demands of their guests and improve operating efficiencies. Our software revenue is also driven by the ability of our customers to configure our solutions for their specific needs and the robust catalog of integrations we offer to third party solutions. Our software solutions require varying form factors of third party hardware and operating systems to operate, such as staff facing terminals, kiosk solutions, mobile tablets or servers. Third party hardware and operating system revenue is typically driven by new customer wins and existing customer hardware refresh purchases.
Support, Maintenance and Subscription Services: Technical software support, software maintenance and software subscription services are a significant portion of our consolidated revenue and typically generate higher profit margins than products revenue. Growth has been driven by a strategic focus on developing and promoting these offerings while market demand for maintenance services and updates that enhance reliability, as well as the desire for flexibility in purchasing options, continue to reinforce this trend. Our commitment to exceptional service has enabled us to become a trusted partner with customers who wish to optimize the level of service they provide to their guests and maximize commerce opportunities both on premise and in the cloud.
Professional Services: We have industry-leading expertise in designing, implementing, integrating and installing customized solutions into both traditional and newly created platforms. For existing enterprises, we seamlessly integrate new systems and for start-ups and fast-growing customers, we become a partner that can manage large-scale rollouts and tight construction schedules. Our extensive experience ranges from staging equipment to phased rollouts as well as training staff to provide operational expertise to help achieve maximum effectiveness and efficiencies in a manner that saves our customers time and money.