Principal Accountant Fees and Services
We regularly review the services and fees from our independent registered public accounting firm, KPMG. These services and fees are also reviewed with the Audit Committee annually. In accordance with standard policy, KPMG periodically rotates the individuals who are responsible for our audit. Our Audit Committee has determined that the providing of certain non-audit services, as described below, is compatible with maintaining the independence of KPMG.
In addition to performing the audit of our consolidated financial statements, KPMG provided various other services during fiscal years 2019 and 2018. Our Audit Committee has determined that KPMG’s provisioning of these services, which are described below, does not impair KPMG’s independence from NortonLifeLock. The aggregate fees billed for fiscal years 2019 and 2018 for each of the following categories of services are as follows:
The categories in the above table have the definitions assigned under Item 9 of Schedule 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act, and these categories include in particular the following components:
(1) ‘‘Audit fees’’ include fees for audit services principally related to the year-end examination and the quarterly reviews of our consolidated financial statements, consultation on matters that arise during a review or audit, review of SEC filings, audit services performed in connection with our acquisitions and divestitures and statutory audit fees.
(2) ‘‘Audit related fees’’ include fees which are for assurance and related services other than those included in Audit fees.
(3) ‘‘Tax fees’’ include fees for tax compliance and advice.
(4) ‘‘All other fees’’ include fees for all other non-audit services, principally for services in relation to certain information technology audits.
An accounting firm other than KPMG performs supplemental internal audit services for NortonLifeLock. Another accounting firm provides the majority of NortonLifeLock’s outside tax services..