Orders at Mobility grew to a record high on a sharp increase in volume from large orders, which the Strategic Company won across the businesses, most notably in the rolling stock and the customer services businesses. Among the major contract wins were a € 1.6 billion order for metro trains in the U. K., a € 1.2 billion contract for high-speed trains including maintenance in Russia, a € 0.8 billion order for trainsets including service in Canada, a € 0.7 billion contract for diesel-electric locomotives including a service agreement in the U. S. and two orders in Germany worth € 0.4 billion and € 0.3 billion, respectively, for regional multiple-unit trainsets. In fiscal 2018, Mobility also gained a number of significant contracts across the regions.
Revenue grew slightly as double-digit growth in the customer services business was largely offset by a decline in the rail infrastructure business. Revenue in the rolling stock business remained close to the prior-year level due to unfavorable timing effects related to the execution of large rail projects, which the business began to ramp up late in the fiscal year. Mobility continued to operate with high profitability in fiscal 2019, including a strong contribution to Adjusted EBITA from the services business. Severance charges were € 20 million, up from € 14 million in fiscal 2018. Mobility’s order backlog was € 33 billion at the end of the fiscal year, of which € 8 billion are expected to be converted into revenue in fiscal 2020.
Order growth reflected overall strong markets for Mobility in fiscal 2019, with different dynamics among the regions. Market development in Europe was characterized by continuing awards of mid-size and large orders, particularly in the U. K., Germany and Austria. Within the C. I. S., large projects for high-speed trains and services were awarded in Russia. Demand in the Middle East and Africa was held back by ongoing uncertainties related to budget constraints and political climates. In the Americas region, stable investment activities were driven by demand for mainline
and urban transport, especially in the U. S. and Canada.
Within the Asia, Australia region, Chinese markets saw ongoing investments in high-speed trains, urban transport, freight logistics and rail infrastructure, while India continues to invest in modernizing the country’s transportation infrastructure. For fiscal 2020, we expect markets served by Mobility to grow moderately with increasing demand for digital solutions. Overall, rail transport and intermodal mobility solutions are expected to remain a focus as urbanization continues to progress around the world. In emerging countries, rising incomes are expected to result in greater demand for public transport solutions.