Sufficiency of Cash Resources The following table sets forth selected information regarding our financial condition:
Our net working capital position improved $18.0 million as of December 31, 2019 compared to December 31, 2018 primarily as a result of the elimination in 2019 of the quarterly dividend of approximately $27.6 million and a decrease in accrued compensation of $7.4 million.
These reductions in the working capital deficit were offset in part by the recognition of current lease liabilities of $6.2 million at December 31, 2019 as part of the adoption on January 1, 2019 of ASU No. 2016- 02, Leases. Working capital was also impacted by a decline in accounts receivable of $13.1 million compared to December 31, 2018.
Our most significant use of funds in 2020 is expected to be for: (i) interest payments on our indebtedness of between $125.0 million and $130.0 million and principal payments on debt of $18.4 million; and (ii) capital expenditures of between $195.0 million and $205.0 million.
Based on available cash, we may utilize a portion of the dividend savings to reduce our longterm debt or repurchase additional amounts of our Senior Notes in the open market or in private transactions if such purchases can be made on economically favorable terms. In the future, our ability to use cash may be limited by our other expected uses of cash and our ability to incur additional debt will be limited by our existing and future debt agreements.
We believe that cash flows from operating activities, together with our existing cash and borrowings available under our revolving credit facility, will be sufficient for at least the next twelve months to fund our current anticipated uses of cash.
After that, our ability to fund these expected uses of cash and to comply with the financial covenants under our debt agreements will depend on the results of future operations, performance and cash flow. Our ability to fund these expected uses from the results of future operations will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business, regulatory, legislative and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.
We may be unable to access the cash flows of our subsidiaries since certain of our subsidiaries are parties to credit or other borrowing agreements, or subject to statutory or regulatory restrictions, that restrict the payment of dividends or making intercompany loans and investments, and those subsidiaries are likely to continue to be subject to such restrictions and prohibitions for the foreseeable future.
In addition, future agreements that our subsidiaries may enter into governing the terms of indebtedness may restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or advance cash in any other manner to us.
To the extent that our business plans or projections change or prove to be inaccurate, we may require additional financing or require financing sooner than we currently anticipate. Sources of additional financing may include commercial bank borrowings, other strategic debt financing, sales of nonstrategic assets, vendor financing or the private or public sales of equity and debt securities.
There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future, that anticipated revenue growth will be realized, or that future borrowings or equity issuances will be available in amounts sufficient to provide adequate sources of cash to fund our expected uses of cash. Failure to obtain adequate financing, if necessary, could require us to significantly reduce our operations or level of capital expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the results of operations.