13. Income Taxes
On December 22, 2017, the legislation commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “TCJA” or the “Act”) was enacted into law. The Act made comprehensive changes to the U.S. tax code, including, but not limited to: (1) reducing the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%; (2) changing rules related to uses and limitations of net operating loss carry-forwards created in tax years beginning after December 31, 2017 as well as the repeal of the current carryback provisions for net operating losses arising in tax years ending after December 31, 2017; (3) immediate full expensing of certain qualified property; (4) creating a new limitation on deductible interest expense; (5) eliminating the corporate alternative minimum tax; (6) repeal of the deduction for income attributable to domestic production activities; and (7) changes in the manner in which international operations are taxed in the U.S. including a mandatory one- time transition tax on the accumulated untaxed earnings of foreign subsidiaries of U.S. shareholders.
In response to the TCJA, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (“SAB 118”), which provides guidance on accounting for the tax effects of TCJA. The purpose of SAB 118 was to address any uncertainty or diversity of view in applying ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes in the reporting period in which the TCJA was enacted. SAB 118 addresses situations where the accounting is incomplete for certain income tax effects of the TJCA upon issuance of a company’s financial statements for the reporting period which include the enactment date. SAB 118 allows for a provisional amount to be recorded if it is a reasonable estimate of the impact of the TCJA. Additionally, SAB 118 allows for a measurement period to finalize the impacts of the TCJA, not to extend beyond one year from the date of enactment. For the year ended April 30, 2018, the Company recorded a provisional decrease in its deferred tax assets and liabilities for the reduction in the federal tax rate with a corresponding adjustment to the valuation allowance. During the year ended April 30, 2019, the Company completed the accounting for the tax effects of the TCJA with no material changes to the provisional estimate recorded in prior periods.
The TCJA also established the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”) provisions that impose a tax on foreign income in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets on foreign corporations. The Company does not anticipate being subject to GILTI due to the sale of Gillam in Fiscal 2018 and the treatment of FEI-Asia as a disregarded entity for U.S. tax purposes.
The provision for income taxes consisted of the following (in thousands):