14. Share-based Compensation
We may grant non-qualified stock options, incentive stock options, SSARs, restricted shares, and restricted share units under our shareholder-approved 2016 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2016 Plan) for up to 2.0 million common shares, plus 957,575 common shares, the number of shares that were remaining for grant under the 2011 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2011 Plan) as of the effective date of the 2016 Plan, plus the number of shares remaining for grant under the 2011 Plan that are forfeited, settled in cash, canceled or expired.
The maximum aggregate number of restricted shares or restricted share units that may be granted under the 2016 Plan is 1.25 million. We may distribute authorized but unissued shares or treasury shares to satisfy share option and appreciation right exercises or restricted share and performance share awards.
For stock options and SSARs, the exercise price must be set at least equal to the closing market price of our common shares on the date of grant. For stock options and SSARs, the exercise price must be stock options and SSARs. The maximum term of stock option and SSAR awards is seven years from the date of grant. Stock option and SSARs awards vest over a period established by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
SSARs may be granted in conjunction with, or independently from, stock option grants. SSARs granted in connection with a stock option are exercisable only to the extent that the stock option to which it relates is exercisable and the SSARs terminate upon the termination or exercise of the related stock option grants.
Restricted shares and restricted share units, whether time-vested or performance-based, may be issued at no cost or at a purchase price that may be below their fair market value, but are subject to forfeiture and restrictions on their sale or other transfer. Performance-based awards may be conditioned upon the attainment of specified performance objectives and other conditions, restrictions, and contingencies.
Restricted shares and restricted share units have the right to receive dividends, or dividend equivalents in the case of restricted share units, if any, upon vesting, subject to the same forfeiture provisions that apply to the underlying awards. Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the 2016 Plan, for awards to employees, no performance-based restricted shares or restricted share units shall be based on a restriction period of less than one year, and any time-based restricted shares or restricted share units shall have a minimum restriction period of three years.
We record compensation expense related to stock options, stock-settled stock appreciation rights, restricted shares, and performance shares granted to certain employees and non-employee directors based on the fair value of the awards on the grant date. The fair value of restricted share and performance share awards is based on the closing price of our common shares on the grant date.
The fair value of stock option and stock-settled appreciation right awards is estimated on the grant date using the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model, which includes assumptions regarding the risk-free interest rate, dividend yield, life of the award, and the volatility of our common shares.
The following table summarizes the share-based compensation expense for options, SSARs, restricted and performance awards included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017: