WebLife Balance, Inc.
On November 30, 2017 (the “WebLife Acquisition Date”), pursuant to the terms of a merger agreement, the Company acquired all shares of WebLife Balance, Inc. (“WebLife”), a browser isolation offerings vendor, to extend its advanced threat protection capabilities into personal email, while preserving the privacy of its users.
The Company has estimated fair values of acquired tangible assets, intangible assets and liabilities at the WebLife Acquisition Date. The results of operations and the fair values of the acquired assets and liabilities assumed have been included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements since the WebLife Acquisition Date.
At the WebLife Acquisition Date, the consideration transferred was $48,765, net of cash acquired of $278.
Per the terms of the merger agreement, unvested stock options held by WebLife employees were canceled and exchanged for the Company’s unvested awards. The fair value of $333 of these unvested options was attributed to pre-combination service and included in consideration transferred. The fair value of $1,468 was allocated to post-combination services. The unvested awards are subject to the recipient’s continued service with the Company, and $1,468 is recognized ratably as stock-based compensation expense over the required remaining service period. Also, as part of the merger agreement, 107 shares of the Company’s common stock were deferred for certain key employees with the total fair value of $9,652 (see Note 11 “Equity Award Plans”), which was not included in the purchase price. The deferred shares are subject to forfeiture if employment terminates prior to the lapse of the restrictions, and their fair value is expensed as stock-based compensation expense over the remaining period.
Proofpoint, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) (dollars and share amounts in thousands, except per share amounts)
The following table summarizes the fair values of tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed, intangible assets and goodwill: