26. Acquisitions and disposals
We completed a number of acquisitions and disposals during the year. The note below provides details of these transactions as well as those in the prior year. For further details see “Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty” in note 1 “Basis of preparation” to the consolidated financial statements.
Accounting policies
Business combinations
Acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group. Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred. The acquiree’s identifiable assets and liabilities are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the fair value of the Group’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree, if any, over the net amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date. The interest of the non-controlling shareholders in the acquiree may initially be measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling shareholders’ proportion of the net fair value of the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed. The choice of measurement basis is made on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis. Acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group. Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred. The acquiree’s identifiable assets and liabilities are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the fair value of the Group’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree, if any, over the net amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date. The interest of the non-controlling shareholders in the acquiree may initially be measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling shareholders’ proportion of the net fair value of the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed. The choice of measurement basis is made on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis.
Acquisition of interests from non-controlling shareholders
In transactions with non-controlling parties that do not result in a change in control, the difference between the fair value of the consideration paid or received and the amount by which the non-controlling interest is adjusted is recognised in equity
The aggregate cash consideration in respect of purchases in subsidiaries, net of cash acquired, is as follows:
During the year ended 31 March 2019 the Group completed certain acquisitions for an aggregate net cash consideration of €87 million. The aggregate fair values of goodwill, identifiable assets, and liabilities of the acquired operations were €77 million, €123 million and €139 million respectively.