Financial risk management
The Group’s treasury function centrally manages the Group’s funding requirement, net foreign exchange exposure, interest rate management exposures and counterparty risk arising from investments and derivatives.
Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of policies and guidelines authorised and reviewed by the Board, most recently in July 2018
A treasury risk committee comprising of the Group’s Chief Financial Officer, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, Group Financial Controller, Group Treasury Director and Group Director of Financial Controlling and Operations meets three times a year to review treasury activities and its members receive management information relating to treasury activities on a quarterly basis. The Group’s accounting function, which does not report to the Group Treasury Director, provides regular update reports of treasury activity to the Board. The Group’s internal auditor reviews the internal control environment regularly.
The Group uses a number of derivative instruments for currency and interest rate risk management purposes only that are transacted by specialist treasury personnel. The Group mitigates banking sector credit risk by the use of collateral support agreements.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial asset leading to a financial loss for the Group. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities and from its financing activities, the Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 March to be:
Expected credit loss
The Group has financial assets classified and measured at amortised cost and fair value through other comprehensive income that are subject to the expected credit loss model requirements of IFRS 9. Cash at bank and in hand and certain other investments are both classified and measured at amortised cost and subject to these impairment requirements. However, the identified expected credit loss is considered to be immaterial.
Information about expected credit losses for trade receivables and contract assets can be found under “operating activities” on page 164.