Segment Data
Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise that engage in business activities from which they may earn revenues and incur expenses; for which separate financial information is available; and whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker to assess the performance
of the individual segment and make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment.
The Company derives its revenue from providing comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services. The chief operating decision maker evaluates performance and allocates resources on a segment basis. The Company’s operating segments consist of two segments – EMS and DMS, which are also the Company’s reportable segments. The segments are organized based on the economic profiles of the services performed, including manufacturing capabilities, market strategy, margins, return on capital and risk profiles.
The EMS segment is focused around leveraging IT, supply chain design and engineering, technologies largely centered on core electronics, utilizing the Company’s large scale manufacturing infrastructure and the ability to serve a broad range of end markets. The EMS segment is a high volume business that produces products at a quicker rate (i.e. cycle time) and in larger quantities and includes customers primarily in the automotive and transportation, capital equipment, cloud, computing and storage, defense and aerospace, industrial and energy, networking and telecommunications, print and retail, and smart home and appliances industries.
The DMS segment is focused on providing engineering solutions, with an emphasis on material sciences, technologies and healthcare. The DMS segment includes customers primarily in the edge devices and accessories, healthcare, mobility and packaging industries.
Net revenue for the operating segments is attributed to the segment in which the service is performed. An operating segment’s performance is evaluated based on its pre-tax operating contribution, or segment income. Segment income is defined as net revenue less cost of revenue, segment selling, general and administrative expenses, segment research and development expenses and an allocation of corporate manufacturing expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses. Segment income does not include amortization of intangibles, stock-based compensation expense and related charges, restructuring and related charges, distressed customer charges, acquisition and integration charges, loss on disposal of subsidiaries, settlement of receivables and related charges, impairment of notes receivable and related charges, restructuring of securities loss, goodwill impairment charges, business interruption and impairment charges, net, income (loss) from discontinued operations, gain (loss) on sale of discontinued operations, other expense, interest income, interest expense, income tax expense or adjustment for net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests.
Total segment assets are defined as accounts receivable, inventories, net, customer-related property, plant and equipment, intangible assets net of accumulated amortization and goodwill. All other non-segment assets are reviewed on a global basis by management. Transactions between operating segments are generally recorded at amounts that approximate those at which we would transact with third parties.
The following tables set forth operating segment information (in thousands):