9. Income Taxes
On December 22, 2017, the Tax Act was enacted into law, which made changes to U.S. tax law, including, but not limited to: (1) reducing the U.S. Federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%; (2) requiring companies to pay a one-time transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries; (3) generally eliminating U.S. Federal corporate income taxes on dividends from foreign subsidiaries; (4) capitalizing R&D expenses which are amortized over five to 15 years; and (5) other changes to how foreign and domestic earnings are taxed.
The Tax Act includes a provision to tax global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”) of foreign subsidiaries and a base erosion anti-abuse tax (“BEAT”) measure that taxes certain payments between a U.S. corporation and its foreign subsidiaries. These provisions of the Tax Act were effective for the Company beginning August 1, 2018 and had no impact on the tax benefit for the year ended July 31, 2019.
Under U.S. GAAP, the Company can make an accounting policy election to either treat taxes due on the GILTI inclusion as a current period expense or factor such amounts into its measurement of deferred taxes. The Company has elected the current period expense method. The Company has finalized its assessment of the transitional impacts of the Tax Act.
In December 2018, the IRS issued proposed regulations related to the BEAT tax, which the Company is in the process of evaluating. If the proposed BEAT regulations are finalized in their current form, the impact may be material to the tax provision in the quarter of enactment.
The U.S. Treasury Department, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), and other standard-setting bodies will continue to interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the Tax Act will be applied or otherwise administered. The Company continues to obtain, analyze, and interpret guidance as it is issued and will revise its estimates as additional information becomes available.
Any legislative changes, including any other new or proposed U.S. Department of the Treasury regulations that have yet to be issued, may result in income tax adjustments, which could be material to our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate in the period any such changes are enacted. The Company’s income (loss) before provision for (benefit from) income taxes for the years ended July 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 is as follows (in thousands):