Following is a summary of our cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities, investing activities and financing activities for the years endedD ecember 31, 2019 and 2018. A discussion of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2017 has been omitted from this Annual Report on Form 10-K, but may be found in “Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” under the heading “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 5, 2019, which discussion is incorporated herein by reference and which is available free of charge on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities was $78.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. Net cash provided by operating activities consisted of positive cash flow from operations including $101.1 million in non-cash expenses and $16.9 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by net loss of $19.9 million and deferred income taxes and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $19.8 million.
Non-cash items included in net loss for the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily included depreciation and amortization of property, equipment, intangible assets and leased right-of-use assets of $66.4 million and stock-based compensation of $32.1 million.
During the year ended December 31, 2019, we also exited certain leased facilities, which resulted in impairment of leased right-of-use assets of$ 9.2 million and leasehold improvements of $1.4 million, which was partially offset by a gain on extinguishment of related lease liabilities of$ 10.4 million, all of which are non-cash items that did not affect cash flows.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $102.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. Net cash provided by operating activities consisted of positive cash flow from operations including $100.3 million in non-cash operating expenses and $28.6 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by net loss of $26.2 million.
Non-cash items included in net loss for the year ended December 31, 2018 primarily included depreciation and amortization of property, equipment and intangible assets of $79.0 million, stock-based compensation of $31.7 million, and impairment of intangible assets of $2.2 million, partially offset by deferred income taxes of $12.1 million and excess tax benefits on stock-based awards of $2.0 million.
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities was $7.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. Net cash used in investing activities primarily consisted of $6.9 million in purchases of property and equipment. Net cash used in investing activities was $7.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. Net cash used in investing activities consisted entirely of $7.8 million in purchases of property and equipment.
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities was $53.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. Net cash used in financing activities consisted primarily of cash outflows from aggregate prepayments of principal of $50.0 million and $12.0 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for restricted stock units, partially offset by cash inflows of $8.6 million in net proceeds from issuance of common stock upon exercise of stock options.
Net cash used in financing activities was $93.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. Net cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of cash outflows from $93.0 million in aggregate prepayments of principal on outstanding debt and $7.6 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for restricted stock units, partially offset by cash inflows of $6.8 million in net proceeds from issuance of common stock upon exercise of stock options.
We believe that our $92.7 million of cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2019 will be sufficient to fund our projected operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. We have repaid $213.0 million of debt to date. The credit agreement permits the Company to request incremental loans in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed the sum of $160.0 million (subject to adjustments for any voluntary prepayments), plus an unlimited amount that is subject to pro forma compliance with certain secured leverage ratio and total leverage ratio tests.
Incremental loans are subject to certain additional conditions, including obtaining additional commitments from the lenders then party to the credit agreement or new lenders. The term loan facility has a seven-year term and bears interest at either an Adjusted LIBOR or an Adjusted Base Rate, at our option, plus a fixed applicable margin.
Our cash and cash equivalents in recent years have been favorably affected by our implementation of an equity-based bonus program for our employees, including executives. In connection with that bonus program, in February 2019, we issued 0.3 million freely-tradable shares of our common stock in settlement of bonus awards for the 2018 performance period. We expect to implement a similar equity-based plan for fiscal 2019, but our compensation committee retains discretion to effect payment in cash, stock, or a combination of cash and stock.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, we may need to raise additional capital or incur additional indebtedness to fund strategic initiatives or operating activities, particularly if we continue to pursue acquisitions.
Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, the expansion of our engineering, sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of our expansion into new territories, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, the continuing market acceptance of our products and potential material investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, services or technologies. Additional funds may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all.
If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed, we may not be able to sustain our operations or execute our strategic plans.