In assessing the ability to realize our deferred tax assets, we considered whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We considered the following: we have historical cumulative book income, as measured by the current and prior two years; we have strong, consistent taxpaying history; we have substantial U.S. federal income tax carryback potential; and we have substantial amounts of scheduled future reversals of taxable temporary differences from our deferred tax liabilities. We have concluded that this positive evidence outweighs the negative evidence and, thus, that the deferred tax assets as of March 29, 2019 are realizable on a ‘‘more likely than not’’ basis.
The aggregate changes in the balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits were as follows:
There was a change of $68 million in gross unrecognized tax benefits during fiscal 2019. This gross liability does not include offsetting tax benefits associated with the correlative effects of potential transfer pricing adjustments, interest deductions, and state income taxes.
Of the total unrecognized tax benefits at March 29, 2019, $361 million, if recognized, would favorably affect our effective tax rate.
We recognize interest and/or penalties related to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense. At March 29, 2019, before any tax benefits, we had $43 million of accrued interest and penalties on unrecognized tax benefits. Interest included in our provision for income taxes was an expense of approximately $17 million for fiscal 2019. If the accrued interest and penalties do not ultimately become payable, amounts accrued will be reduced in the period that such determination is made and reflected as a reduction of the overall income tax provision.
We file income tax returns in the U.S. on a federal basis and in many U.S. state and foreign jurisdictions. Our most significant tax jurisdictions are the U.S., Ireland, and Singapore. Our tax filings remain subject to examination by applicable tax authorities for a certain length of time following the tax year to which those filings relate. Our fiscal years 2014 through 2019 remain subject to examination by the IRS for U.S. federal tax purposes. Our fiscal years prior to 2014 have been settled and closed with the IRS. Our 2015 through 2019 fiscal years remain subject to examination by the appropriate governmental agencies for Irish tax purposes, and our 2014 through 2019 fiscal years remain subject to examination by the appropriate governmental agencies for Singapore tax purposes.
The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain, and the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ materially from the amounts accrued for each year. Although potential resolution of uncertain tax positions involves multiple tax periods and jurisdictions, it is reasonably possible that the gross unrecognized tax benefits related to these audits could decrease (whether by payment, release, or a combination of both) in the next 12 months by $26 million. Depending on the nature of the settlement or expiration of statutes of limitations, we estimate $26 million could affect our income tax provision and therefore benefit the resulting effective tax rate.
We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing income tax controversies and the impact, if any, of the expected tolling of the statute of limitations in various taxing jurisdictions.