Information About Our Executive Officers
Set forth below are the name, age and position of each of our executive officers
The following are biographical summaries of our executive officers other than Mr. Kirchner, for whom a biographical summary is set forth under “Information about Our Board of Directors.”
Robert Andersen is executive vice president and chief financial officer of Xperi Corporation. He became executive vice president and chief financial officer of Xperi Corporation in January 2014. Prior to joining Xperi Corporation, he served as executive vice president and CFO of G2 Holdings Corp. d/b/a Components Direct. Mr. Andersen previously served as CFO at Phoenix Technologies Ltd. and held senior financial roles at Wind River Systems, Inc. and NextOffice, Inc. His finance career began at Hewlett-Packard Company, where he served in various controller, treasury and technology finance management roles. Mr. Andersen served on the board of directors of publicly traded Quantum Corporation through March 2017. He currently serves on the board of directors of the Alameda County Community Food Bank in the role of vice chair. Mr. Andersen holds a B.A. in economics from the University of California, Davis, and an M.B.A. from the Anderson School of Management at the University of California, Los Angeles.
Paul Davis is general counsel and corporate secretary of Xperi Corporation. He joined Xperi Corporation in August 2011, and became general counsel and corporate secretary in July 2013. Before joining Xperi Corporation, he was an attorney at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, where his practice focused on mergers and acquisitions, corporate securities matters and corporate governance. Mr. Davis holds a Juris Doctor from the University of California, Hastings College of the Law and B.A. degrees in history and political science from the University of California, San Diego. While at Hastings, he was magna cum laude, an Order of the Coif member and a managing editor on the Hastings Law Journal.
Murali Dharan has served as president of Tessera Intellectual Property Corp. (“Tessera”) since October of 2017 and is responsible for the strategic direction, management and growth of the Tessera intellectual property licensing business. He has extensive leadership experience, most recently as CEO of IPVALUE, guiding the company from a start-up to an industry leader and helping partners to generate more than $1.6 billion in IP revenue. Prior to joining IPVALUE in 2002, Mr. Dharan held executive roles at various technology companies, including executive vice president at Preview Systems, vice president and general manager at Silicon Graphics, and vice president and general manager at NEC. Mr. Dharan holds an electrical engineering degree from Anna University in India, a master’s degree in computer science from Indiana University, and an MBA from Stanford University.
Geir Skaaden has served as our chief products and services officer since December 2016 and leads global sales, business development and product management for our portfolio of imaging and audio solutions. He served as DTS’s Executive Vice President, Products, Platforms and Solutions from October 2015 until its acquisition by the Company in December 2016, having previously served as DTS’s Senior Vice President, Corporate Business Development, Digital Content and Media Solutions since December 2013. Prior to that, Mr. Skaaden served as DTS’s Senior Vice President, Products & Platforms from April 2012 to December 2013. From 2008 to 2012, Mr. Skaaden served in a number of positions overseeing numerous aspects including strategic sales, licensing operations, and business development. Prior to joining DTS in 2008, Mr. Skaaden served as the Chief Executive Officer at Neural Audio Corporation from 2004 to 2008, where he previously served as Vice President, Corporate Development from 2002 to 2004. Mr. Skaaden holds a B.A. in Finance from the University of Oregon, a Business degree from the Norwegian School of Management and an M.B.A. from the University of Washington.
We have adopted a written code of business conduct and ethics that applies to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, or persons serving similar functions. The text of our code of business conduct and ethics has been posted on our website at http://www.xperi.com. and is included as an exhibit to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 1, 2016.