NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (in thousands, except for share and per share data)
We employ a liability-driven investment strategy whereby a mix of equity and fixed-income investments are used to pursue a derisking strategy which over time seeks to reduce interest rate mismatch risk and other risks while achieving a return that matches or exceeds the growth in projected pension plan liabilities. Risk tolerance is established through careful consideration of plan liabilities and funded status. The investment portfolio primarily contains a diversified mix of equity and fixed-income investments. Other assets such as private equity are used modestly to enhance long-term returns while improving portfolio diversification. Investment risk is measured and monitored on an ongoing basis through quarterly investment portfolio reviews, annual liability measurements, and asset/liability studies at regular intervals.
The following table summarizes the fair values of our pension plan assets:
(1) Comprised of common stocks of companies in various industries. The Pension Plan fund manager may shift investments from value to growth strategies or vice-versa, from small cap to large cap stocks or vice-versa, in order to meet the Pension Plan's investment objectives, which are to provide for a reasonable amount of long-term growth of capital without undue exposure to volatility, and protect the assets from erosion of purchasing power.
(2) Comprised of investment grade short-term investment and money-market funds.
(3) Comprised of partnerships that invest in various U.S. and international industries.
(4) Comprised of long-term government bonds with a minimum maturity of 10 years and zero-coupon Treasury securities ("Treasury Strips") with maturities greater than 20 years.
(5) Comprised predominately of investment grade U.S. corporate bonds with maturities greater than 10 years and U.S. high-yield corporate bonds; emerging market debt (local currency sovereign bonds, U.S. dollar-denominated sovereign bonds and U.S. dollar-denominated corporate bonds); and U.S. bank loans.
(6) Comprised of investments in securities of U.S. and non-U.S. real estate investment trusts (REITs), real estate operating companies and other companies that are principally engaged in the real estate industry and of investments in global private direct commercial real estate. Investments can be redeemed immediately following the valuation date with a notice of at least fifteen business days before valuation.
(7) Comprised of investments that are measured at fair value using the NAV per share practical expedient. In accordance with the provisions of ASC 820-10, these investments have not been classified in the fair value hierarchy. The fair value amount not leveled is presented to allow reconciliation of the fair value hierarchy to total fund pension plan assets.