Total CO2 emissions FY19
1 Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.
2 Absolute carbon emissions divided by revenue in millions.
Auto Trader is required to measure and
report its direct and indirect greenhouse
gas (‘GHG’) emissions by the Companies Act
2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report)
Regulations 2013. The greenhouse gas
reporting period is aligned to the financial
reporting year. The methodology used to
calculate our emissions is based on the
financial consolidation approach, as
defined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol,
A Corporate Accounting and Reporting
Standard (Revised Edition). Emission
factors used are from UK government
(‘BEIS’) conversion factor guidance for
the year reported.
Auto Trader is required to measure and report its direct and indirect greenhouse gas (‘GHG’) emissions by the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013. The greenhouse gas reporting period is aligned to the financial reporting year. The methodology used to calculate our emissions is based on the financial consolidation approach, as defined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition). Emission factors used are from UK government (‘BEIS’) conversion factor guidance for the year reported.
The report includes the ‘Scope 1’ (combustion of fuel) in relation to company cars and ‘Scope 2’ (purchased electricity and gas) emissions associated with our offices. We have chosen to include the emissions associated with leased company cars in Scope 1, as we are responsible for these emissions.
We have chosen to present a revenue intensity ratio as this is a relevant indicator of our growth and is aligned with our business strategy. The reduction in our GHG emissions is due to a reduction in the fuel emissions from our company car fleet, as the fleet has reduced. We have also reduced the amount of electricity we use, and this coupled with a decrease in BEIS conversion factors has also contributed to our Scope 2 reduction.