Summary cash flow information is set forth below for the years ended December 31, (in millions):
We use our cash flows to fund our operations and investments in our business, including tower maintenance and improvements, communications site construction and managed network installations and tower and land acquisitions. Additionally, we use our cash flows to make distributions, including distributions of our REIT taxable income to maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT under the Code. We may also repay or repurchase our existing indebtedness or equity from time to time. We typically fund our international expansion efforts primarily through a combination of cash on hand, intercompany debt and equity contributions.
In April 2019, Tata Teleservices and Tata Sons Limited, two of our minority holders in India, delivered notice of exercise
of their put options with respect to their remaining combined holdings in our Indian subsidiary, ATC TIPL (see note 15 to our
consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report). Accordingly, we expect to pay an amount equivalent to INR
24.8 billion (approximately $347.6 million at the December 31, 2019 exchange rate) to redeem the put shares in the first half of
2020, subject to regulatory approval. In connection with the closing of the Eaton Towers Acquisition, 
In April 2019, Tata Teleservices and Tata Sons Limited, two of our minority holders in India, delivered notice of exercise of their put options with respect to their remaining combined holdings in our Indian subsidiary, ATC TIPL (see note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report). Accordingly, we expect to pay an amount equivalent to INR 24.8 billion (approximately $347.6 million at the December 31, 2019 exchange rate) to redeem the put shares in the first half of 2020, subject to regulatory approval. In connection with the closing of the Eaton Towers Acquisition,  In April 2019, Tata Teleservices and Tata Sons Limited, two of our minority holders in India, delivered notice of exercise of their put options with respect to their remaining combined holdings in our Indian subsidiary, ATC TIPL (see note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report). Accordingly, we expect to pay an amount equivalent to INR 24.8 billion (approximately $347.6 million at the December 31, 2019 exchange rate) to redeem the put shares in the first half of 2020, subject to regulatory approval. In connection with the closing of the Eaton Towers Acquisition, we entered into an agreement with MTN to acquire MTN’s noncontrolling interests in each of our joint ventures in Ghana and Uganda for total consideration of approximately $523.0 million. The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2020, subject to regulatory approval and other closing conditions. In April 2019, Tata Teleservices and Tata Sons Limited, two of our minority holders in India, delivered notice of exercise of their put options with respect to their remaining combined holdings in our Indian subsidiary, ATC TIPL (see note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report). Accordingly, we expect to pay an amount equivalent to INR 24.8 billion (approximately $347.6 million at the December 31, 2019 exchange rate) to redeem the put shares in the first half of 2020, subject to regulatory approval. In connection with the closing of the Eaton Towers Acquisition
As of December 31, 2019, we had total outstanding indebtedness of $24.2 billion, with a current portion of $2.9 billion. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we generated sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our capital expenditures and debt service obligations, as well as our required distributions. We believe the cash generated by operating activities during the year ending December 31, 2020, together with our borrowing capacity under our credit facilities and cash on hand, will be sufficient to fund our required distributions, capital expenditures, debt service obligations (interest and principal repayments) and signed acquisitions. As of December 31, 2019, we had $1.3 billion of cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries, of which $583.0 million was held by our joint ventures. While certain subsidiaries may pay us interest or principal on intercompany debt, it has not been our practice to repatriate earnings from our foreign subsidiaries primarily due to our ongoing expansion efforts and related capital needs. However, in the event that we do repatriate any funds, we may be required to accrue and pay certain taxes.