CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS, COMMITMENTS AND OFF-BALANCE SHEET OBLIGATIONS
Our disclosures regarding contractual obligations and commercial commitments are located in various parts of our regulatory filings. Information in the following table provides a summary of our contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of September 28, 2019 (dollars in millions):
1) Includes $150.0 million in principal amount of 2018 Notes as well as interest; see Note 4, "Debt, Capital Lease Obligations and Other Financing," in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
2) As of September 28, 2019, capital lease obligations consists of capital lease payments and interest as well as the non-cash financing obligation related to the failed sale-leasebacks in Guadalajara, Mexico; see Note 4, "Debt, Capital Lease Obligations and Other Financing," in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
3) As of September 28, 2019, purchase obligations consist primarily of purchases of inventory and equipment in the ordinary course of business.
4) Consists of U.S. federal income taxes on the deemed repatriation of undistributed foreign earnings due to Tax Reform. Refer to "Liquidity and Capital Resources" above for further detail.
5) As of September 28, 2019, other obligations on the balance sheet included deferred compensation obligations to certain of our former and current executive officers, as well as other key employees, and an asset retirement obligation. We have excluded from the above table the impact of approximately $2.3 million, as of September 28, 2019, related to unrecognized income tax benefits. The Company cannot make reliable estimates of the future cash flows by period related to these obligations.
6) As of September 28, 2019, other obligations not on the balance sheet consist of guarantees and a commitment for salary continuation and certain benefits in the event employment of one executive officer of the Company is terminated without cause. Excluded from the amounts disclosed are certain bonus and incentive compensation amounts, which would be paid on a prorated basis in the year of termination.
7) Includes future minimum lease payments for two facilities in Guadalajara, Mexico, leased under 10-year and 15-year base lease agreements, both of which include two 5-year renewal options; see Note 4, "Debt, Capital Lease Obligations and Other Financing," in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.